Transcript for: Live Session II - Macro Economics you need to understand about the stock markets Part 1 -
Transcription Date: 2025-03-30 02:25:16.860503
==================================================

 Hi everyone, I hope you can see me. I'm just a very quick thumbs up if you can. Okay, awesome. All right, we'll just wait for like a few seconds and then we will start. Meanwhile, what I can do is I'll just quickly recap like in a couple of minutes. What we had studied in the morning session and then we will continue, right? So the first key thing that we studied in the morning session was around asset diversification, right? So there are different assets which are plotted on a risk reward curve like this, right? And you accordingly have to construct a portfolio. Second key point was that every asset that you add, for example, stocks are very different from gold. Gold is very different from real estate. Okay, collectively they should solve some problem for you. Okay. For example, if the goal is retirement planning and if you say that, my parents are like old and they require like regular income, then regular income can't be created from stocks. That's not the objective of the stock market. Regular income can be created with a very high degree of certainty from real estate. Right, this was number two. Then we started the macroeconomic section where we studied something about liquidity, right? And which simply meant that if we increase the liquidity or money flow in the economy, it leads to something called as asset price appreciation. And from the year 2008 to 2022, right? Additional 23 trillion dollars of liquidity has been created in the world, due to which the prices of real estate, the prices of stocks, the prices of gold, etc has gone up. We can plot the assets on hard assets, right? Versus soft assets, right? And stocks will fall somewhere here, right? It will some fall somewhere here. In case you missed all these points, it's not a big deal. We'll be uploading the recordings, right? By tomorrow. So you can watch it in detail and that will give you more clarity. Now, I would like to start that class from here by deepening this grid. So I'll keep using this grid in the future as well, right? For the future classes. And one key point to understand here is that see, there are certain asset class which do not solve any purpose in the current world. Okay, so like I mean, honestly, like they're the structurally or in simpler language. They are structurally bad as per today. Now you'll get very pissed off with me that how can I say like, you know, PF, EPS, EPS are bad. Okay. How dare I say that, right? So see, guys, one simple rule of investing is that you need to evolve, right? One simple rule of career is that you need to evolve. One simple rule of life is that you need to evolve. If you forever assume that whatever happened in the last 20 years, it will continue to happen in the next 20 years. It's a stupidity, right? I mean, it would not happen. So it's very important for us to be objective in our analysis. We are not here to satisfy our ego. We are not here to win any war. It's just money. We are investing money to grow our money, right? So that's the objective. And if we can do that at a sensible way, that's the objective. We are not here to win like any debates. Okay. So if structurally speaking, something looks bad, it's bad. Right? So for example, you know, the reason why I said PF, EPF, EPF are bad is because you're locking your money on a long term basis. Right? So for example, here, you're locking your money. Liquidity is very low, right? Growth is not as much compared to something like, let's say, FTP 50, right? So an FTP 50 will typically grow at 12, 13%. And a safe NPS, for example, will grow between 9 to 12%. So the correct comparison, there is 9%. Okay. The taxation rules around asset classes keeps on evolving, right? For example, in 2018, there was no LTCG on equities, right? Now there is 12.5, right, which is a substantial increase on LTCG. Now I cannot comment, try to mean whether equities will be a great asset class after 15, 20 years, all that stuff. Okay. So if I have to give you the first key takeaway of today's class or like this session, it's very simple. That's he has investors. Our first job is to educate ourselves about different asset classes. Okay. Why? Because the rules of investing keeps on changing. You might feel that you know what real estate is not great right now or real estate is not good right now and all that stuff. But it might be one of the best assets, right? In five years time, we cannot comment, right? Similarly, you might feel that you know what equities, what's a point because real estate always gives great returns. Then again, the point becomes that you don't know what the taxation around it would be, which brings me to question number one, right? And a good thought exercise. If you live in UAE, right? Why is it that people in UAE get very excited about real estate, but they invest no money in UAE based equities? Any logic or like I mean anyone wants to debate this fact. I mean people who are not from UAE would not know this. That almost 10 investors that you speak with nine of them would be exclusively investing their money in real estate. There is no other asset class that they go to. Why is that? Trust in government equity market not that great in UAE. Okay, very good question. So why is equity market not that great in UAE? What's the reason? Low returns. Okay, why is the returns low? Government support needed someone rightly pointed out the answer that government support is needed, right? So which brings us to the question that she was. I mean, for example, like if you go around like one one and a half years ago, right? There was this entire debate that you know what Indian economy is great because our stock market is great. By that logic, like people in Japan should be dying of hunger, right? That because if I show you like you know Japanese stock market, right? If you go and simply check Japanese. Right. Let's see. Okay, so here is Japanese stock market, right? So if you would have invested $100 in Japan in 1990, it would have been $100 still long. Okay, so zero percent returns. Okay, so by that logic, everyone should be dying of hunger in like Japan because Japanese stock market does not grow. So by according to our politicians logic, even Japan is like a food do economy, right? So what's happening in Japan? And how many of you have been to Japan and if you've gone to Japan, do you feel that it like it's a hunger? It's a poor people's nation or something like that? Yes, so a profile lives there, right? So do you think that you know Japan is a lower run economy compared to India or something like so? No, so in Japan, they have a unique problem, right? So Japan, what is happening is that they are majority of the population or not majority, but their average population age is very high. They worry about inflation because for example, if you're 60 and majority of people living in India, for example, are 60 65. Most likely they will not be working or they would not be in the workforce. They have to survive on their retirement fund, whatever they have created. Now if Japan inherently is a high inflation economy, for example, where the cost of living keeps going up by 5, 6%, 7%, what would that do to your retirement plan for a 60, 65 years, 70 year old person? It will be a huge problem, right? Because you don't know like whether you will be able to survive, right? I mean, now on top of that, you're making people gamble on there, like you know, stock market and whatever, right? So the point is that Japan stock market does not give returns because Japanese government does not want it to give returns. UAE stock market does not give returns because UAE stock market or UAE government does not want it to give returns. UAE real estate gives returns because UAE government wants to give it give give returns. Now you'll say that, okay, that's interesting. Why would you not want your stock market to give return? What's the logical sense behind that? On the flip side, why do you think Chinese stock market does not give returns? Same story like Japan, right? Any take or sign anyone wants to speak and explain. Because there is a downside to your stock market, which is a very interesting conversation, right? And which has to do with the concept of strategic control, okay? So for example, if I show you HDFC bank, okay? So here you go, right? How you go on here, right? You type HDFC bank, right? And HDFC bank, you will consider it to be an Indian bank, okay? Here you go on investor's tab. What you will see is FIs for an institutional investors own 49% of your HDFC bank, okay? So is it technically like an Indian bank? Maybe like because 51% are these, right? But in public, for example, let's say Akshad is public. Now if I was a regular, let's say I'm a Chinese citizen, okay? And I own 1% of HDFC bank. Now FIs plus Akshad were foreign national can typically only 51% of HDFC bank, okay? I'll say Singapore could hear it even more difference does it make? Well, I can change, then we can change the board. We can change a lot of things. We can change the regulation, right? Exectra, etc. Okay? Another very interesting exercise. How many of you live in Singapore? You wait and talk about strategic resources? Example, in Singapore, there is a company called a Singed by the company. There is a company called a Singed tell, right? Which is a government owned entity, right? It's owned by Tamasek, which is the investment arm of the Singapore government, okay? 100% of ownership and telecom is by the Singaporean government, okay? There is no foreign intervention there. If you go to UAE, telecom is owned by Etisala and you both are owned by the shake there, okay? They don't allow you to own that, okay? Or no foreign intervention whatsoever, right? The point being that once you open up your stock market, basically you are indicating to the world also that you're open for sale, okay? If you're selling your strategic resources like ports, airports, etc., etc., which are critical resources. Why am I saying critical? Because communication is critical, right? For example, reliance owns geo-hotstar, right? They own the broad casting right of IPL or whatever, cricket. They own a team also, right? So right from like, so this is called as extreme monopoly, okay? It is fine, right? It's entertainment. But now, change the equation. Can you survive without a phone today? No, right? That's a problem, right? So all these are like complicated points, right? So therefore some countries are open for sale. Some countries are not open for sale. They will not sell their strategic resources. They do not want to play the game. Like, you know, my Wi-Fi is okay. So just give me a second. Okay, yeah. Okay. So then comes a natural question that, okay, then why is it that UAE is opening up its real estate market? Because again, like action, they go and acquire like, you know, X number of properties there and you know, you can like, you know, whatever, like create like lot of struggles there and what no. Because that's real estate is hard to manipulate. Okay. So the point I'm trying to tell you is, let's see, the goal of every government, right? Now, how do you typically increase wealth, right? In a nation, for example, this is India, right? So let's meet raw bad map of India. So basically this is India, right? Now, how will India get rich? Right? You have to bring, bring foreign wealth. Now, how do you bring foreign wealth? Either you bring tourism. This is example Mauritius, right? Which is high end tourism entirely tourist based economy. It's bringing foreign dollar into the country. Okay? Or you follow the China model, right? That you are exporting a ton of stuff, right? Which is required in the US and promoting US consumerism. So everyone in the US consumes like Chinese shirt, Chinese phones, all that stuff. So therefore they are paying money to China. So they are getting dollars. They are getting more, Mauritius is getting money through tourism. So that foreign tourism. Or you sell like investments. And these are called as India denominated assets. Okay? So for example, Dubai denominated asset or Dhrum denominated asset is UA real estate. Okay? Now in real estate, the countries get more control. But have you seen like foreigners coming and buying real estate in India? Like what fraction of people would buy? Okay? No, so absolutely not. Okay? So why? Because it is very non-transparent. Okay? It's not as if Indian real estate is bad or foreigners cannot make money in Indian real estate. They can. Right? But the point being that it's very difficult to buy real estate for average foreigner to buy in India. Trump is doing it. And you know, all the Carlisle, Blue, Blackstone is doing it. That's separate. Okay? They have like a huge team of lawyers. But if a random American dude comes and buys properties in India, they will get a lot of money. Right? So I mean, that's the point. For example, Ayodhya Mandirganampe, the people who are bought property, they got wiped out. Okay? So like it was hyperinflated. Right? There is no transparency of data. Under different things. Right? Flip side. For example, you might have heard of the story of a boatman in UP. Right? By Yogi Adityanath Ji that he made like 60 crores or something like that. I don't know how much money he made. Right? So the bottom line is or like, you know, Mahakum generated like I don't know, $5 trillion economy in itself, something of that sort. See, that's stupidity. Right? Why? Because for example, I am an Indian tourist. Now instead of choosing to go to Goa, I went to Mahakum. You took my INR instead of Goa, you know, UP took that. Now, how is that adding like to the economy or how is it making India rich? There is more transactional activity from 1% to the next, but you're not adding any external value. Right? If you go back, study the history of money, you will always see that nations that grew rich, they grew rich by exporting. For example, when India used to be called as the golden bird, our net export used to be 25% of the world trade. So, you know, almost like we used to be a net exporter and that back then. Okay? China grew from a low income country to a middle income country because it was a net exporter. Okay? America exports what? America exports US dollar. Right? How is so every country makes a decision of importing wealth to their nation? Everyone understands that. So this was a nice macro story. I hope it gave you a sense because you guys keep on asking me why is Japan stock market not growing? So what is the relationship between like stock market and GDP? Nothing. Okay? Basically the government picks what mode of foreign investment it wants to bring in India. And UAE government picks what mode of foreign investment it wants to pick and bring in UAE and they accordingly restructure the entire thing. Okay? So that's the point. I think that was a simpler explanation. Now of course, like a lot of complexities can be brought into this right but the general thing is. That if you want to so and what is India like really exporting? Like what are we good at writing like what is that winning USB? India's great at exporting humans. Okay? So for example, like Google CEO Microsoft CEO, etc, etc. Right? So like even it jobs is basically human labor export right which is which are housed in India. Right? But otherwise in terms of remittance, remittance means that I am sending money from UAE to India. A lot of people are sending money from Europe to India. So remittance, my India is number one by far. Yeah. So I'll not go into like all that politics, but I hope the economic side of things kind of makes sense. Right? So that is also fine. Right? For example, if you can export enough Indians outside India and they bring a lot of wealth and send it to India, that's also great business model. Because nothing wrong there. Okay? That will genuinely increase prosperity. Cool. Okay. So I hope that this point is clear. Right? And this solves that out that, okay, why is Chinese stock market not running up? Why is Japan stock market not running up in conjunction to India? Despite more liquidity in the market. So this is the answer. Okay? Because every government focuses on different different things. Okay? Now then comes a very natural question that okay, what about like US and India? These are two best markets right now in terms of the returns that they typically generate. Will they continue to generate returns in the future? Because what if the Indian governments focus changes to something else? Okay? And what if US governments focus changes to something else? Why would they care too much about their stock market? Right? Then all your SIP job, it will become like Japan's story 30 years, I guess, I very zero returns minute. Right? So that should also not happen. So can that happen? It can happen. Okay? Now in India, it should not happen. Okay? Now why is that? Because think about it this way. And let me tell you like story of arms, right? So basically like, Arabs and Jews are the most other smartest and Chinese are the smartest investors. Okay? I have a very simple rule wherever Chinese money is going, follow it. Because for example, they buy wherever they are buying real estate next I'll buy it right and they are buying real estate like left right center. Okay? Very, very smart savvy people Indians are very smart right at least foreign investors in India if their capabilities to invest like 10 crore come engine they will go and buy only two crore come mention. Okay? So very, very smart people. Okay? So very savvy investors, right? So like I mean, these are good guys to follow. So okay? So Arabs, what are they buying? Right? So I mean if you for example look at Emirates Arabs, South East, right? They are buying real estate everywhere in the world. Right? That's one second. They are buying IP intellectual properties. Okay? For example, MMF Joe Fights, Othien, Christiano Ronaldo, Spence a lot of time in Saudi, UA, Dubai, all that stuff. Right? Football rights, Qatar, it did World Cup. Right? I think which was it 2016 or something like they did World Cup. So bottom line being that Arabs are buying like lot of IP's whatever they can get their hands on. Okay? Now, IP's are what? IP's are strategic resources. For example, Pakistan is a defunct nation. Okay? But it has some very important ports which are of strategic importance Chinese on that right? So for example, Chavar port and all that right in Sri Lanka, you have Haman, total port right? So that's again, very important strategic resource. I think Chinese on it right? etc etc. So if a come if a country is up for sale, right? You will get bias. Okay? So the point is that. Okay? Now in India are strategic resources up for sale. That's sad to say, but yes. Okay? So there is nothing I can do on that. I can just tell you the reality. Does it need to be? No, honestly, like I mean, but we have like very corrupt politicians. Chavar is with India not China. Yeah. So what like whatever like so I hope you get my perspective. I'm not like foreign policy expert. But I hope you get my point. Okay? So that's the. Yeah, so bottom line mean that whenever country wants to sell some of its strategic resources, you will always find bias for that right now in India. Unfortunately, if we have to bring foreign wealth, how exactly can we bring foreign wealth? Okay? So one mode is real estate. Can we do it? Well, if you start building bringing Elon Musk in quality real estate, what will there will politicians and corrupt judges invest their money in right? So that's problem one. So yeah, so that's a problem. Right? So they will not make it transparent. It's not as if that real estate can't be made transparent. Right? So that's point problem once real estate is gone. Right? What about like what's other like bond market? Right? So bond market is another way. For example, US has a massive bond market. Right? Now what is the meaning of bond market bond market means that are that becomes a store of wealth for other nations for example, if you take iron or right if you're traveling to Southeast Asia or Turkey, right, Turkey. If you go to Turkey, right? And if you're trying to exchange INR into Turkish lira, right? You will get some some really weird rate. Okay? There will be at least 30% depreciation on that rate on INR. Okay? So Google, I'll go, but I got you it's like one Turkish lira is like 10 rupees, but you will only get like seven rupees for it. This is something like this will happen. Right? But if you and same like go to Cambodia, right, they accept US dollars, but they don't accept INR. Right? And if you try to change your INR into US dollar there, you will get a horrible rate. Okay? So that's applicable across Southeast Asia, wherever you go, Thailand, Vietnam, all that stuff. The point being that it indicates the strength of the currency. Now, you guys can look up the exact numbers. Right? But if US stock market is this much, US debt market is this much. Okay? Which means what? For example, right? Between like 2002, all the way till 2015 China, what it used to do was that it used to send a lot of stuff export to the US. Okay? So let's say that it did 100 billion dollars of export each year. And US also used to send some stuff to the US. US also used to send some stuff to China. It used to send 50 billion dollars. Well, let's say 41 billion dollars. Okay? So the net deficit is 49 billion dollars. Okay? Now this is called as trade settlement. Now 49 billion dollars of trade has to be settled. Now China can ask US, you see boss, pay me in like US dollar. Right? Or pay me in Chinese Remnambi. Right? Or pay me in gold or pay me in whatever currency. I am asking. I am asking. Okay? To settle this trade. So most of the countries right now ask for US dollar. Now they have started asking gold. Right? India has also brought it to one gold and all that stuff. But in this phase, Chinese used to ask for US dollar. They don't use, they didn't use to ask for like Chinese Remnambi. Okay? Why? Because close to 70% of the world trade still happens in US dollar. The point being that right now in this phase where we are living, right? And this started happening like post 1973. Up until now, right? I don't know till when the system will exist. The store of wealth is US dollar. Okay? Store of wealth is not INR. Right? And the key implication here being that US dollar is still a very powerful currency and it will remain so for a foreseeable future. It's not the decay is has started to happen, but it will happen slowly slowly. Okay? Now coming back to the argument that I was making US bond market is very strong because of the fact that US dollar is very strong. Right? Because US dollar is what US dollar bond market is what so for example, when a treasury bill is issued or a 10 year government security by the US is issued. What is the what is it based on? It is based on the promise that hey, if I am giving $100 to the US government and US government tells me that after 10 years, I will get $110. Okay? I can be very much rest assured that in 10 years time, US government will meet its promise. Okay? Now unfortunately in India now again just wrapping up that conversation. Let's see, we have real estate, which is very opaque. We have bond market and third option is equity. Okay? So these are like three options that any country will have and fourth is maybe two services slash tourism. Okay? Or export. Okay? Service export. Okay? Now here manufacturing wise, we have the worst like you know system that is going on right now are manufacturing growth rate is 2 3% right? It's not even worth competing anymore because price of real estate in India is very high. Just not you know, we cannot manufacturing even low end products comparatively. So foreign wealth will not come from here real estate. We are not making a transparent so it can't come from here. Bond market what is happening in 2016 so a master stroke was done that in 2016 we banned our own 1000 to be known. Okay? So now if you're in if you are a brainless person right a foreigner would you how will you look at India you look at India here. And so I'm going to go to the note that demonetized right so why would you invest in bond right and that literally killed our bond market people when I wrote this post on like Twitter people got angry at me that how can you say all this. You look at the data right so why is it that small ticket bonds have been released in India now right. So that's what is happening so that's a fact right you yourself tell me that if a government can ban its own note tell me like when US governments have banned their own notes. Now Chinese government has banned its own notes. No so they don't do it right so this is the reason why because it decreases trust on your long term capability of government. So yeah so that's the no so I'm not in India absolutely not right so the problem that has happened is this right so we are bond market sucks are export market sucks right are real estate market is not sensible for foreigners. India's if India truly needs to grow it needs to bring in tourism right which is a very low hanging fruit for it it can actually bring a lot of to money from tourism if it improves that's one area and second is stock market. So then comes a natural question that why do stock market may why is it that people get so excited about Indian stock market. So the answer is there is very simple for example if you go back to the 2000 and 9 to 2017 the interest rates were 0.25 I had shown you in the morning class now what do you think these when the interest rates are so low what would people do. A lot of investors high ticket investors hedge fund hedge fund that you borrow money and you invest okay so hedge funds borrow cheap point to fight okay and then they look at risk here bets okay so they are adding very low cost of borrowing so they will borrow like hundred billion dollars and they will raise something called as. Through their general partners and then they will raise a VC round okay or pick whatever you call it right so that fund is kept at 100 billion dollars they will look at India that okay India is a fast hungry nation right and so many startups can be created here let's give our money to a startup okay and we will figure out an IPO exit right so for example right I mean we will invest at a valuation of 100 units and we'll get an exit of 10,000 units very few markets in the world did that. Now if you study again you know history of corruption fully bookly can you go to me so what you would notice is that before like for example if you would have invested money in like Maruti IPO okay if you ask your dad granddad etc was time to be IPO today right 1990s 2000s etc etc what used to happen back then was that some money was left on the table for retail investors to make money that's a for example Maruti will come they genuinely need money to expand their operations they will launch their IPO IPO think you now you'll directly become like participants for example if you would have seen the movie grew right ashwara Raya Bishik Bhatranwali so in that like the room I am money had you know launched an IPO and got money for a lines okay so that was a time so that those were like old days okay then what happened was that over time like for example specially after like 2007 2008 the Indian regulators became like very lax in terms of IPO requirements for example the initial requirement of an IPO in India was that it needs to be a profitable company if it is not a profitable company you can't IPO not getting right you can search for it okay then that rule was dropped okay then there was like some other rule was brought then over time it was lagged lagged lagged lagged so up you are a key for example if you take a look at any IPO for example take a look at let's say Ola electric okay Ola electric okay so here is Ola electric okay it IPO that what here okay 91 it is here 51 okay so like how many and recovery will take how much time I don't know okay if you look at mama earth like mama earth what is the name I'm forgetting the name let's look at 197 this ATM which is actually a good company right which is not like already company it IPO here right 21 25 map as other okay so that's point okay look at like other high profile IPOs for example what's the name of Falguni Nair Falguni something you know what was the name for getting so whatever like so I hope you get the point right so Nika yes Nika right so Nika right so what's happening here right so it IPO here right 352 it's at half the valuation after four years I guess okay now this has become a common theme right who eventually pays for it you'll say you know I'm not doing IPM and we're going on the right so like I was a third investor right but no what ends up happening is that if you don't invest directly but your mutual fund managers invest indirectly okay so what ends up happening is that for example where does your SIP money goes okay it goes exactly to companies like these okay so all electric for example by people were like yelling at the top of your voice this is a made up bullshit company right or a well customer service people don't like it nothing good is happening in the company why is like mutual fund managers buying a company like 200 300 400 P which has like no clear growth prospects why because this is called as book building okay so and this tells you the reality of stock market basically what happens is that see Pelleke was there used to be like a trading pit okay for example olay electric 100 stocks are there now I am a book maker right so olay electric Bhavish will come right he'll say here I want to liquidate 100 stocks so I have shot will keep this on my book okay and then I will go on a trading paid or whatever and I'll find 100 investors for you okay so this used to be the game now what is happening is and what was a difficult step here well the difficult step here was finding buyers because I had to go and convince buyers to invest in a company called as olay electric for example have you guys seen the movie walls wolf of Wall Street Leonardo Di Caprio so there he used to trade like many stocks and then he used to call up people that he know what this is a great company he'll tell you a story about the world okay now what is happening right in 2025 what is happening is that he here are like you know XYZ dumb stocks okay here is like a mutual fund here are buyers and what are you buying you are buying a Cyp okay do they need to even ask you where to invest your money no you can cry right whatever like 1 2% is and the explanation is a 1 2% is a gift of the world of the right so the point being that 1 2% being done by a 4000 different funds it gives exit to crap companies okay so I hope everyone understands this to any questions is so far Dubai literally books one thing I'm not kidding okay so like like everyone know that how much talk is going to move not everyone like but people who build books like these okay why would they kill their own fund reputation that's a very good question and they are not killing their own fund reputation okay what they are doing is that they are giving saw 100 mutual fund guys will come right and they will have 1 1% of whole electric hypothetically okay 100% selling is done you have exposure of 1% companies happy these mutual fund guys are happy because they are taking only 1 2% hit and everyone is taking a hit what is what is a threshold that mutual fund managers want to build not index true index okay the index mean here right for example okay if you don't invest via mutual fund what will you do what are your options number one thing is that you will say index investing I will do but the moment index falls by 20% you will be out you will take a loss because you have a no wise investor you are not gone through that investing cycle then you will go to FDs okay on FD or making after tax 5% okay so that's so what is the baseline that you'll be happy with if the mutual fund manager is giving you 10% okay and that's problem one problem to us that the way index returns are measured it's very difficult to do it okay because some days you top up some days you top down sometimes you will miss up like I said you're right so it's a very complicated game there is no easy way to track all that right unless you are you have little bit of sophistication so what I'm telling you is that there are essentially three options option one is go to FD gold safe safe 5 6% this is what you'll make post tax option to is get to direct stock slash direct index this is option three but here you need little bit of sophistication okay and your option to or the safest is to just say so that's option two and people just simply go with option two okay that's the bottom line and this is where the game gets correct okay now then comes a natural question that okay because I was completing the story as to why Indian stock market will continue to go up because more companies are being created in India right and this is the only channel through which foreign money can come right so for example just say there is a concept of waste management just say your Americans or they and all that they send their nuclear waste to other you know African countries and what not why why because you can dump that shit in US okay you'll get sued okay so they find like some third country into the world but it's like they dump it there okay so the point is that wealth again flows in the same manner right that hey okay they understand that with this market is corrupt like I mean black rock and all can make crazy amount of money if they invest in like you know 100 different such companies and the IPO rules are lacks right so you can IP also fairly easy all that stuff is there right so therefore like I mean because of that fact right a lot of money turns into speculative money and comes here now before I criticize India or like you know criticize this part of India this is the game everywhere it's not just in India it's in the US the degree might be less okay somewhat it's in real estate across the world that real estate becomes speculative okay so the point being that there is some market in the world or some segment which is speculative in nature for example Hong Kong now Macau now what is speculation on Macau gambling okay Macau if you have been right casinos great casinos all that stuff dream 11 speculation pure speculation okay Indian stock market speculative it has become speculative Dubai real estate speculative why because trading fiction is removed opportunity impression is given that a lot of money can be made okay so when investing coalesces with speculation that is where like you know it becomes like a a place where you have to be a little bit more sensible in terms of investing but at the same time if you look at the positive picture because there is speculation going on people are making crazy amount of money therefore the market will be kept alive there is no other option for example Indian government makes crazy amount of returns for sure on stock markets why if you AMC's pay crazy tax you guys pay crazy tax brokers pay crazy tax right if you kill the golden bird right it becomes a problem so this is a topic that we will study subsequently right a little bit more but I hope it gave you a flavor that okay see you know not no asset classes like sacrosanth okay when the narrative becomes super simple you just have to use your brain and not get you know yeah and not just simply flow in the air right at least have some sense in terms of investing where you can invest as a system and make decent returns by decent returns I mean they can consistently beat inflation and you have control over your assets that's the most important part this entire story I was telling you so that you start appreciating the fact that see it's not a buying forget market because the speculative bubble will burst at some stage we don't know when okay but along the way it will give you numerous opportunities to book real profits okay so that's the idea that if you just buy and forget it becomes a problem but if you buy and I will map or be the<|fr|> Commission I mean how FII is DII is actually buy selling all that but to cut the long story short right and if I have to just summarize it in one slide what I will say is that number one right when it comes to India right stock market has to be kept alive because right now this is the only source of bringing foreign wealth in India okay this and remittance right these are two okay that's the only way to make India denominated assets or INR denominated asset or to make people invest in that okay this is one second key thing is Indian stock market is becoming more speculative speculative means that you know asek which sale palette used to be like this now it will become like this okay so the ebzen flows will be huge okay so it's very important for you to understand and book real profits book real profits yeah very important okay third key point it's very important to be diversified diversified and play it as a system and now how to design this this is something that we will study in the future right but these are two three points right and let's get back to the macro class right what I wanted to touch upon and this is where you start understanding the system a little bit more that for example right in the morning session we studied that if you are understanding the concept of this right that okay if too much money is being printed right or what do you call this liquidity has been increased then what happens right the asset prices go up okay now in India also some asset prices will definitely go up as long as this balance sheet keeps on expanding right what would those asset classes be so you have to invest and equity comes out to be at the top even now right so even now equity is a very good structured product where you can grow your money but what I feel over the next few years what is going to happen at least in the decade decade and a half is that that capital rotation while a concept is going to become really critical okay you cannot just simply invest money and forget it has become a much more sophisticated market with time why because the narrative has completely run on SIPs right okay I'll just zoom out now what ends up happening is now if we if we go back to the macro class that hey we studied that car example in the morning that what is that twin goal of the government number one goal of the government is to keep the GDP high or give the notion that our GDP is growing really fast now GDP has two components number one component is called as real GDP and number two component is called as inflation okay technically this is called as nominal GDP is equal to real GDP plus inflation this is usually like the mathematical term that we know for it what people typically do or what stock markets have started to do is that the market will go up it will come down it will go up it will come down it will go up it will come down so this period right for example let's say that this was 2015 and this is 2025 the market did nothing right it just consolidated why did it consolidated because real GDP had to be added to the market or the valuations to start making sense okay so that's typically where we are heading okay so this is the first goal of the government which is improving GDP right and to improve GDP in the short term and to indicate carry on what theta chees is a children all that stuff they simply do what they can print money and they can play around with the rate of money printing okay this is very hard for us to guess that how much money is the Indian government going to print next year impossible for us and therefore everyone is wrong about stock market valuations okay including me okay so we cannot guess that how much of this is going to happen this is literally number one reason why stocks or stock market moves up and down right it has got to do with liquidity okay number two thing is that see this seems like a great scheme that you just simply print money increase the asset value everyone is happy because if you are getting like 20 25 percent returns on your mutual fund 20 percent returns on your real estate every year it seems great but it creates a problem the problem is inflation inflation means that an apple used to cost 100 rupees next year it starts costing 120 rupees that's 20 percent inflation your rent used to cost one lakh now it suddenly starts costing 1.5 lakhs and a bunch of people who do not invest in the stock market or assets what will they do they will revolt okay they will literally come out on the roads if they are dying so they have two choices either to die or revolt okay so they choose revolt that's how every empire has fallen so therefore government has to worry about inflation okay and therefore you will see that for example whenever there is a spiking of inflation for example here in 2020 inflation in the US fell why because in 2020 nothing was moving okay so inflation usually in the US is around 2 percent okay but here it was 0.3 right and then it suddenly right a lot of money was printed between here and here almost 20 percent of the entire US money supply was printed between this time okay and inflation shot up all the way till 9 okay this was very high inflation now what would happen if you are sitting on 9 percent inflation the government is expecting a boss now people will revolt right if this keeps on going up like this it becomes a hyper inflation problem so what do they need to do they need to do something called as quantitative tightening which is the opposite of quantitative easing quantitative easing meant what increasing money supply right quantitative tightening means what that hey you know what either you withdraw money temporarily little bit or add the value leaves slow down the growth rate of money printing okay that's what practically speaking quantitative tightening means okay now what happens when quantitative easing is done when QE is done and how exactly is it done so quantitative easing can be done in three four ways right number one step is that you can literally print money for example the chart that I shown you earlier let me just go back right so this chart so this is literally printing of money this is called as expanding of the balance sheet of the Fed okay so this is literally one and this is obvious that if you print money and throw it in the economy via banks cheap loans then all the asset prices be it stocks bonds real estate will go up okay what's number two right the number two way of playing around with quantitative easing is to lower the interest rates okay if you cut the interest rates then what will happen there will be more economic money flow you will say that you know what's the point of keeping every money at 5% if let's say for example every rates right now are seven but if interest rates are cut and brought down to let's say 2% base now this empty will start giving you four so what will you do you will say that you know what's the point of like saving money I'll just go and spend it in the economy or I'll go and invest it in the stock market so this is called as interest rate manipulation or interest rate like you know restructuring whatever you call it okay third is called as taxes so you can move around and play around with the taxes for example if they say that hey tax on FD is 50% what will you do will cut your FD and bring it to the stock market if they say that LTCG on equity is 25% what will you do you will cut your equities and move to some other asset class okay so these are like multiple ways in which QE can be done the objective of QE is controlling the rate of flow of money in the economy okay if and typically it is seen that if I have to just quickly help you understand the relationship between QE the more QE you do the more GDP data will improve it will lead to growth more QE directly relates to more growth but more QE also directly relates to inflation okay everyone understands this these basic points okay so this is very important so therefore our dance continues that QE is done it leads to inflation okay then QT is done side ways movement happen right real GDP improves right real GDP time is bought that 4.5 or 7.5 whatever right that 670 or 810 years right I mean this entire cycle keeps on going okay and then somewhat like whatever additional QE was done it is truly compensated by real GDP increase okay so this is the game this is what they are trying to balance and if at any stage there is like a mismatch between quantitative easing which was done earlier and the real GDP growth then what do they do they do QT right how will they do QT for example recently fed came and said that hey we are not going to cut interest rates we are going to keep it at 4.5 percent we are delaying the interest rate cut by 6 months okay what are they trying to do they are just trying to go in a side ways movement keep 6.5 or come girl let's let's make the world or US work for 6 more ones let's add some more real GDP and then we will see if we want to accelerate growth okay the way to accelerate growth number one mechanics of accelerating growth is QE this is literally number one even in a situation like covid what I was explaining earlier that when it comes to like even covid like situation when the world stops moving does nothing but even if governments decide to print money throw it in the market the stock market will go up prices of real estate will go up even with zero jobs in the economy price of everything will go haywire right okay so someone is asking me is there any data source to check money printed by government in a year just go to public city that's the best tool right now okay so just simply go and ask literally this pressure you will get your answer okay so on an average the money printing rate has varied between like 14 to 24 percent across countries the average comes out to be 17 to 18 percent in the last four five years okay RBI just did QEC that's beyond my bear market is equal to QT okay so that's a very interesting question can we have a bear market now what is the meaning of bear market I'm not saying correction okay I'm saying bear market bear market means or other depression that would be the right term for example 1930s depression why did 1930s depression happen this is a once intense answer to that okay because governments back then could not print money okay the way they can do now we were somewhat on a gold standard okay so what was the real money what was the protection of wealth right so the wealth protection asset was gold everything was gold bagged for example if Indian government wants to release 100 rupee note in the economy they had to keep one gram of gold in their treasury okay or in their locker same goes for the American government same goes to the German government when was this standard abandoned this was abandoned completely after 1973 so people keep on cribbing and crying about the fact that you know what was the this does what do you call it the we will find like a great depression like situation there is no such thing as great depression like situation why because QE can be done really fast now okay 2008 was the first time when QE one and that was quantitative easing one phase right which was massive right the model was already tested right Ben Banaki was given Nobel Prize in economics for this stupidity right to be honest like that that's all I can call it right so it was madness right that he executed this right and it kind of stuck in the market now 2020 the Hader Road map right that we were sitting on highest levels of debt also in 2020 2020 covid crash happened people wanted quick fix right and government pandals to the crowd okay for example in India most of us would agree that in what reservation is bad this is bad that is bad the point is government is theatrics okay government is very reactionary right not only in the government governments across the globe okay they will cater and they will figure out the easiest possible solution right and that's that right so there's nothing that can be done and quantitative easing is the easiest possible solution 1930 like depression will not happen simply because government has infinite control over money printing they do not ask you how much money to print they do not ask you anything important note for you to understand is that what happens when government print money too much it leads to inflation and are you at a loss yes you are at a loss if you're not investing in assets okay that's the point okay so that's the key takeaway and the central key takeaway is that's e and this is a Peter Lynch quote when you can write it it pretty much says that he more money is lost waiting for a correction then the correction itself and let me prove it to you now okay so see for example if you go here okay so let's go to nifty okay so nifty 50 okay okay so this is nifty 50 okay the market from its top just as you guys yeah the market from its top right corrected by how much from here to here right I mean if you look at the entire dip this entire fall was 16 17% fall 16% fall right if you open up Twitter if you look at media channels if you look at anything there was just may ham right I mean there was just the panic was like unreal that this is the end this is the doom okay this that stuff okay there was just no end to do like 15% fall okay now how many times now think of the opposite that the market went up from here to here by 17 18% did you see people dancing yeah or like you know doing like one from here to here it went up like 18% or 32% did you see like anything any major like positive sentiments 22% here and here I'm talking about like in last four years marketer at least gone up like you know 20% plus four five times okay from here to here right it went right so this was a dip right and again it went like 37% so four instances I can show you where the market went up by like 20% plus four times in the last four years so what is it that I'm trying to tell you so I'm trying to tell you like the husband's theory okay so what is husband's theory that husband can do 10 good things okay and he'll not get like appreciation okay but if he does one thing wrong right the wise will catch on to that okay so that's like you know the husband's theory okay so same happens with the market okay that okay all like you can change it if you're off of the gender right also just take it out the joke okay so that's the same thing okay if the market falls by like 20% there is massive mayhem right and people cry a lot okay but market will go up four times 20% plus four times five times but it's not as if that you know you're giving like special reward to your mutual fund manager for making extra money for you know why he goes up which way right so that's the bottom line okay so the quote that hey you will lose more money waiting for a crash than the crash and crash itself is a very powerful quote and it is becoming more and more prominent okay so this is a very important key takeaway please remember this important note again and I'll keep on referring to this two part theory that if you find a good asset at good price by it okay I don't know how much it will fall I don't know if you know when it will recover if you have spare money lying around in three years it will definitely give you like 15 20% cash years that's the design of the market right now can it change maybe right and I'll inform you whenever I think that that theory will change okay so where can you find this 15 20% fall in the markets right now lot of places okay so for example nifty itself is 15% now if you're on my youtube member community you would have already known that I have I'm like 1995% invested I was about 30% of the return yes yeah right so that is one okay that's point one okay so whenever you feel then the market is 15% down I have shown you private bank ETF right next okay so you're right so this is a channel which is getting formed okay so here again if you check so this is this is x6 7% something like no this is just a second right so this had gone down like like by 12 13% if you'd have bought it right in this and this is where I bought a lot right now that's a great place to buy now what people will do is and the reason why people will not buy is and I'll tell you that also right what people will look at is that for example this candle right this big green candle okay this is how much right so in a single week right so this is a weekly candle right in a single week it went up by 5% okay this is on weekly basis okay so this is weekly candle I'm looking at now if you're observing this chart almost 1995% of the people will say are 5% to budget then right away not half the that's like crazy right why should I put my money right let me wait for two more like no two three percent fall then I'll put okay you I'm not getting right I have friends who are still waiting for nifty to get to 7500 levels why because 8000 something levels because covid-may more 8500 get out right so and they miss the rally so when they will when will they buy only at 8500 okay better or right so that's the problem okay it's much more difficult to invest money in a rising market and make returns rather than investing money in a falling market okay I run a hedge fund right I run something called as a closed-end hedge fund right now the meaning of closed-end hedge fund is that I don't take money in every type of market why because I'm not playing the AUM generation game I'm playing return optimization game okay so I'm 37 right I'll be 38 and my goal is very simple right when I'm 50 and if I have run a medallion type of fund when I'm generating a CAGR of 40% a year 35% a year I can raise money whenever I feel like okay I'd will right so that's not a problem right the problem is generating returns consistently now how do you generate returns consistently it's very easy right just invest in a market when it is down okay and waiting and waiting and waiting for the market to go down is the challenge okay whenever I get 15% of the 20% market I'm not sure I put okay when I don't get it I don't invest right so it's not like a system you know you have to invest and all that okay so for example here right so here is this an investible asset for me yes okay I'll invest I'll set tight why great asset I quality no problem from a future point of view let me show you other right so for example SOX right now this is a semiconductor index now here if you take a look right semiconductor index is down from it speak by 26% from the top now are there problems yes if you speak for example one of our course participants work with broadcom right if you're working intake if you work with a sml all that you say deep seek argue deep seek argue I'm going to do okay like it's not as if that you know what guys I mean it's not as if that suddenly like you know this will go down like this okay so just a second right it's not as if that it will go down like this and forever stay here okay so this is important if you would have taken my 20 22 meta bet so meta had corrected by 60% at that point in time Amazon corrected by 35% of few days like one a few months back so then I invested like a lot of money so the point is that whenever you get these type of opportunities you need to take advantage of it now there can be a secular fall right and then there can be now see it's not as if that every step everything that is fallen will come back up okay therefore I'm saying that judging quality of an asset is very important and for that we'll have like a business analysis class where I'll teach you like what are the criteria for you to check whether an asset is good or not and they're also we can make a mistake it's not as if that you 100% make money right out of 10 bets that you will take five will go home okay but the rest five will make enough money for you to offset all your losses and all that okay I hope that this point is clear to everyone right okay so all right so now just quickly coming back right okay now under what circumstances will you not make money so far we have studied like the concept of QE that if quantitative easing happens then it's logical that you will make money from the stock market 2008 2020 are prime examples right 2020 are prime examples but there are situations when QT also happens quantitative tightening also happens okay so let me show this to you right so for example there's that data okay so for example right this this is like Q quantitative easing chart right so quantitative easing this was QE one cycle markets total fed assets kept on going up so quantitative easing is happening right they've increased the balance sheet right financial crisis man then there was no crisis still fed took more debt right then there were good times so the world trade in trade traded more in this entire phase still they expanded their balance sheet then again they expanded their balance sheet because in 2020 there was a crisis so the point being that the fed balance sheet or that quantitative easing or liquidity in the world will keep on going up like this okay so this is not changing this is point one okay and therefore asset prices are not going to come down right at least for the good assets okay now if we just look at this data there are phases when quantitative tightening happens okay so for example this was start of quantitative tightening this is where the fed did not increase its balance sheet now I hope all of you understood this is quantitative easing this is quantitative tightening why because here the rate of money printing has gone down okay it's not for example the rate of your height increase goes down it means it does not mean that your height decreases okay it means that if you are growing at 3 inches per year now your rate of height growth is only 0.1 inch per year are you getting that does not lead to reduction in height okay now here this is the quantitative tightening phase from October 2017 to September of 2019 and here the fed balance sheet was reduced okay in a way right or the rate of money printing was substantially withdrawn but what happened to nifty 50 nifty 50 went from 9000 all the way till 12000 despite qt okay so qe method stock market is going up qt maybe there are phases when stock market goes up okay this is very interesting now here again if we superimpose qe and qt both together you can see this right so this was quantitative easing phase this entire thing stock market went up from this is nifty 50 this blue chart right stock market went up like this okay this is quantitative tightening phase again stock market went up this is quantitative easing phase again stock market went up now what's the macro reason for this see quantitative easing what happens as liquidity goes up and therefore stock market goes up now quantitative tightening is deliberately done in good times now what is the meaning of that quantitative tightening for example right right now there is a lot of negativity in the world right for example Russia Ukraine war is going Trump has introduced tariffs China is launched like deep seek so one could argue that hey this is like bad times lot of uncertainty now in investing world bad times means lot of uncertainty that's the single matrix of analyzing whether this is a good time in investing or bad times okay right now there is a lot of uncertainty in the market okay what will be good times when there is a resolution to China you sorry Russia Ukraine war right whatever resolution it is China is opening up its world trade it's growing at 5 6% 7% right and as a result of China other nations are also growing because they are getting also more business from China okay Trump had done everything possible on you know trade war right I mean it has already he's already put tariff what new tariff will he put right so it's not like you know he'll go in and next countries that there is a certainty there when these four or five things happen no like then the Fed will stop expanding its balance sheet because people are anyways bullish during those times because there is a lot of certainty so you're happy putting your money or you're going to solve all of your market right so you'll put any way money right you're anyways building more businesses businesses are anyways expanding their capacity so this QT by the government is theoretically done when the times are already good and as a result of the stock market keeps on going up sharing some statistics markets typically go up 60% of the time 60 market goes sideways almost like 30% of the times right market goes down 10% of the times so if you don't understand anything and why SIPing typically works is because of the fact that the market keeps on going up okay so that is the reason why SIP works okay but because market is going up a lot of but in SIP you'll not make like more than average return you'll make inflation adjusted returns most of the time every ununderstands this entire view point on QE QT liquidity etc couple of quick updates here right so for example if you study what China is doing right so if you just simply go and google China liquidity increase okay so if you search this okay the people's Bank of China and this is 15th Jan news the people's Bank of China on Wednesday pumped 959 130 billion dollars worth of liquidity via 7-day reverse repurchase agreement they are increasing liquidity okay if you look at you're up long term borrowing okay so here you will see news let's have some news German Trappellary rating good borrowing rate now and I see another example has an hour this one'm any long term bond okay irification bond hertz Okay, so this should hopefully have the latest data. Okay, so do you see this spike right? I mean this I don't have like a paid plan, but you'll see this spike, okay, which is bond rates in Germany. So what Germany is doing is that it is it has increases for example, instead of paying. 3% as interest rates on its bonds, bonds means that I will give, you know, $100 to the German government or whatever their currency is. And Germany will pay me at the end of the day, $103. Okay, so that's Germany current interest rate. Now suddenly you saw spike in this one on a 10 year bond. Okay, now what is the meaning of this? This means that Germany wants a German government is collecting more money now. So that it can spend it in the economy and will pay the interest later. Okay, there's called an expansion of balance sheet. So even Germany right now is kind of increasing their balance sheet. Okay, for whatever spending it doesn't matter. Right. So for defense, energy, they might be building their own energy needs and all that. Right. So because Germany was being fueled by energy from Russia. Now that supply is cut off. So of course Germany has to build those basic structure systems. Germany's economy was contingent or a large part of it was contingent on high and automobile manufacturing China will eat into that in the next five to 10 years. Right. So it will be very bad times if they don't, if the European government does not start expanding its balance sheet. So does it kind of make sense to like take a little bit of exposure to Europe? Yes, it's called asymmetric bit. Now I cannot say that whether this will definitely play out or not, but it is an asymmetric bit. It could be considered. Okay, so I'm studying more. I'll let you know, you know, how to expand that. But I hope you got the perspective of what is the meaning of like liquidity quantitative easing quantitative tightening. Why does the government does QE? Why does the government does QT? If the government does QE quantitative easing it leads to inflation. Why inflation is bad? Why inflation is worse for people who are not investing because if you're if QE happens and you are investing in the stock market because of asset price appreciation. You will still make money, right. But if you're just keeping your money in cash in India, right, and not doing anything with it, then it brings to that grandfather's story that I was telling you in the morning that then that leads to a lot of trouble for you. Okay. So therefore net net. It's always good to be 70 80% invested in the market. Okay. So that's the idea. Right. And that's the spirit with which you should generally operate. Okay. Now what we're going to do is that we are going to take a five minute break. So we'll be back at 646 right and then we'll stop. Okay. And I'll take the question towards the end. Okay.