Transcript for: Live Session VII - Investment thesis When and how to sell and book profits Part 2 -
Transcription Date: 2025-04-01 23:41:35.206824
==================================================

 All right, Sonam and Hersch, a key is we quit guys less right or none and structure yourself from a taxation point of view that way with time point. Right, right. This is another start of the back. Actually, Hi. I go first. Yeah, sure. Actually, I've been hearing your advice on, you know, that I was working in India until 2022 and started buying mutual funds around 2015. So and still buy. So now because I'm in Singapore, I just want to understand that should I be exiting it or there is a long term. Can't do anything once so that's the problem in the Indian market and that's the reason why I feel this entire sip is a scam. Yeah. Yeah. reason is that you can't move your account. For example, if you have a vested account with. In India right now. And let's say that you're right now in Indian tax resident after 1015 and you're buying like Google Amazon this that stuff. And after 15 years, you become a hypothetically like when you find a job in UAE and you know you come here and whatever. Then you can effectively transfer that account from. Because it's with a US company. It's called as well that right. Okay. So technically you can link that account to your UAE bank. Okay. And then you sell that account entirely. You're liquidating and you're paying 0% LTCG. But in order to liquidate Indian mutual funds, you can't move Indian mutual funds to UAE. Okay. So you have to first sell it. Get pay whatever taxes. Get that money. Then move that money into UAE. And then you can buy. And then you can buy. Indian mutual funds with that money. Okay. Okay. So but then your advice should would be that you know we should still go and sell it now instead of keeping it. There is no upside down outside of that because that money you anyways will have to pay tax at some stage. That we never with the right. Exactly. This is the same problem that I have right. I mean, for example, I built a very big India based portfolio, which was extremely stupid on my part. Because if I would have thought about tax residency and all that was some of these were featured in the VT. Right. So then. Like, since now with the Singapore tax regime where you know, I pay tax only either in Singapore or in India. I'm paying it in Singapore. So when I do a selling in India for the Indian profits there, I still have to pay the taxes. That's how it's not how it goes. Right. So that's what Samir Arow was also saying. Right. And he is also saying that, was he going to get all of the taxes and then that money which you want to pay. That's right. And then I said to him, That's how it's goes. So that's what Samiruraro was also saying. Right. And he's also Singapore based. Right. So since I don't know much about Singapore, because I'm not treated via Singapore. I'm building a company there now. So I'll understand more. But as I know about UAE, I can talk more. But even in Singapore, that's my understanding that if you're a foreign investor from Singapore, investing in the Indian market, you still have to pay. On equities, you still have to pay taxes. OK. Which means by default, you have to pay taxes on mutual funds also. OK. Got it. What's company are you building? Would love to know if you're in Singapore anytime soon. Let us know. Yeah, I'm sure. I'll be with you in Singapore soon, man. So I'll keep you posted. Please. Thank you. So no, yes. Hi, Alshad. I just wanted to check with you based on all your steps of analysis. So, Bozing, I wanted to choose a hospital or a finance top for my portfolio. And we listed out on screen now. Can you show some way of how to shortlist those stocks and maybe choose one? No. So there's automation. Right? I mean, you guys are expecting me to tell you automation. You have to go through a check. No. So you should analyze each of those companies separately and then choose it. Yes. Exactly. And honestly, you don't even need to analyze everything because you'll anyways watch some YouTube video, some like someone would say, for example, some hero or I would say that who you stock would be here. And I will say that who you stock would be here. Right? I'll follow on and you'll be right. So the point is that you'll get enticed by that. So my goal of this course is not that you become like a equity analyst. The goal is that if someone is throwing some information at you, how can you structurally analyze it and take action accordingly, your portfolio? OK. Open for it. And another thing was, as I think the question towards the end is, I'll miss teaching. So how do we go about buying unlisted companies? Now see, two, three things. One is that if you have an account with infinite money, there are other companies like that. So you can buy, why are them? They help you buy unlisted stocks. Are they safe? Yes. Why? Because unlisted space is regulated by something called as Ministry of Cochrane Tafas, MCA. And the moment the company files for an DRHP, that is IPO, they all under the purview of CB. So this is already a regulated space. It's not as if that these companies have suddenly cropped up and they are taking money illegally nothing of that sort. What can happen is that they might put additional nonsense to start this. So for example, at Platform X, they will quote NSC as let's say 1630. At some platform, they might quote 1700. Now what ends up happening is that there would be additional facilities involved in it. For example, companies like NKRID, they can help you resell your stock also subsequently. And they might charge you less for that service. Now that's a facility. Some would only be sellers. They would not help you list your equity in the primary market and sell it. It's also about just internal safety of the company. So just work with a bigger group. Because I have, I work with NKRID money in the sense that I am an angel investor in it. I have had a long term association with them. I know the team. I know that NKRID, you guys yourself search for it. So for example, NKRID is the parent group. You search about NKRID. Now NKRID money is a subsidiary of NKRID. But that does is that it lends at least a unicorn status to the company. So yeah, so that's the bottom line. You cannot typically trade it because it's your customer who responds to it. So that's the bottom line that there is a level of trust that I have with them. I cannot say the same about others. So this is one option that you can do. Second, if you say that no, I don't want to try these platforms. No problem. You go to HDFC securities, Edelweiss, etc. to their private wealth management teams if you are dealing at such large levels of money. Tell them I want to buy this stock. Can you get me the sourcing? And they will figure it out. Then they will sell it to you at whatever rate you negotiate with it. It's like private Swiss banking. So that's the bottom line. But typically in the second option, it will be the price will be very high. In the first option, if you're buying it directly through NKRID money or some other platforms, the prices will be typically lower. So it's very similar to how banks and new banks operate. That new banks charges are less compared to traditional banks. But you will always feel slightly more safety dealing with traditional banks compared to new banks. So that's how the story is. Can we sell them before IPO? Technically, yes. You can sell them. But that's not the goal of buying. Unlisted. You can sell them. That's that can be done. So that's that. I'll make more notes and I'll share more notes with you about unlisted. So you'll stop the unlisted topic here. Because otherwise I'll miss what I had to teach for this class. But I hope that these seven-aid type of stocks are clear when do you buy them, turn around stories, etc. You cannot buy unlisted from zero. So unlisted. Zero that does not put unlisted. And zero that isn't public markets. Right? The platform that you see, it's public market. For example, now, it's up to like a month, month and a half. You're a swiggy listing that you would have bought from NKRID money. It will start getting featured onto your zero account if you have listed that. To buy unlisted stocks, you can just you need a trading account first. So because you have to give your D-mat number. So without a trading account, you can't buy an unlisted stock. So it directly gets linked to your trading account. The moment you buy an unlisted stock, you will get a receipt for this. So it's not as if capnash got it, you got a company, you got it, and whatever. So then you will not be able to get your stock. No, it's directly it's held by like a deposit. Lock-in period I've already spoken. It's six months. So after IPO, right? The uncertainty risk that you're taking with unlisted companies is when will they IPO? For example, many of you have been messaging me, you know, what, which, go play was it's all right and whatever, like in NS here, you know, they will not IPO for like two years. I'm regular, by regulation, don't you know? Right? I mean, it's a government company. Of course, they are going to take time to IPO and all that. But even in unlisted space, the valuations can keep going up. Okay. So bottom line being that, you know, it kind of makes sense to build some positions unlisted and some positions listed with at least a three year viewpoint. If you don't have that three or four year viewpoint on these type of stocks, do not enter. Okay. If you guys want, I'll send you like a link because I'm an angel investor, they'll give you special discounts to my students. Okay. So that's not an issue. Okay. So I'll push them and that will be useful. Okay. So I'll put this on the WhatsApp group if that helps. Okay. Good. Otherwise, you can buy it from anywhere. Okay. Who is selling? So for example, many people, early investors, for example, let's say some VC fund had picked up, let's say, NSC, right? Very early, right? When NSC was smaller, like five years, six years ago, now they might want to liquidate 10% of their portfolio. Why? Because they want to invest only in series a companies, right? Or very small startups, or they want to take this money to the US or whatever, right? So these are the type of sellers who sell it. Okay. So, okay. So cool. I hope that this was clear and this gave you clarity on how to, what type of stocks to buy. And I've written like some theory of mine, right? That what are some things that you need to consider? Or the main point that you need to consider before buying each of these stock types. Okay. Now Bitcoin, I'll not speak that's not part of the course. So we honest, but again, you can think about it from 2x to 5x perspective. Okay. All right. Now, the next point that I wanted to touch upon was selling. Okay. Let's go through some FAQs first, right? The first FAQ is I'm on 20% profit. I bought 10 lakhs worth of HDFC on date X. Now it is at 12 lakh. Should I sell? Okay. Or opposite question is that I'm at 30% loss. Should I sell both are useless questions? Okay. Now, what is the why are these useless questions? Because in economics, there is a concept called as dead weight loss. Okay. So now what is a meaning of dead weight loss? Okay. So for example, if you meet like married people, like married, I must be lucky, right. So then you say, yeah, I'm, I'm, I'm sure you like it. And then I used to have like such a free life. And you know, bachelor's a good job. I was going to be free at the bar and I went out. I wanted to get my team and cars. But I was a little worried about you, you know, it's a one that's the bottom line. That's that thing is done. Okay. Now don't speak about it. Okay. So like living your head is as a bachelor or whatever. Now that thing is done. That face is gone. So just leave it. So there's no point in sort of reminiscing about it. Now females might have similar conversations. I can't bring that perspective in. Because I have no practical experience in that. But this is typically how people behave. So same goes for stock buying. For example, when an LIC ad bought it here, 826, 8 fail, I'm like, whatever, 20% loss, should I sell it? It's useless. You have to make judgment on today's price. You have to make judgment on today's quality of business of LIC on 7th October, 2022. What happened before that is pretty much nonsense. OK, that thing is gone. Now similarly, I bought LIC at 550. Absolute bottom I was able to time. Now it has gone to like $1,080. Now should I sell it? Because I'm sitting on like, you know, whatever, 100% profits. Again, useless. You have to make decision as of late 9th February 2024. Whether it is overvalued, whether it is still a good asset. So these are two things. OK, what again, again, I keep on saying the same thing. Good asset for next two, three years. Good price right now. OK, now is this the way to analyze price that it went to like whatever? X, no, what do we look at? We look at price to equity. We look at what else? We look at trading channels. We look at if consolidation is there, it is hitting resistance support. Is it below it's 200 day moving average? What type of stock it is? What is our investment thesis on it? Exector, etc. OK. So I hope that I'm able to answer FAQs like, oh, this is probably the most over asked question on this topic that I'm sitting on 30% loss on 20% loss on this, that stuff. What should I do? I don't know. OK, so this is this point itself is useless. OK, so how much loss profit you are on? It's it's irrelevant. OK, to this entire discussion. Everyone gets it. OK. Good. OK, now I have like buy and forget type of stocks in my portfolio because I listen to this like this investor. He says that, you know, that you should just buy like five companies that you use on everyday basis and just forget about it. And you know, look after like and give it to your grandkids and all that. Should I buy and forget? No. OK, why? OK, answer simple questions. Quant mutual fund. OK, it has something called as churn ratio. OK, churn ratio. OK, in fact, you can go and check it. I'm not making this up again. Or we'll talk to our friend perplexity. OK, so we go churn ratio of bond mutual fund. OK, what turn over ratio you will just go? I'll just see if they are. Yeah, so this is called as turn over ratio. Now, what does the meaning of turn over ratio? Turn over ratio means that quant active fund buys and sells stock. For example, it started with, let's say, one, two, three stocks. Now, then it turned around these five stocks. Then it turned around, change these stocks five times. OK, so either they did capital rotation. Or they bought it, sold it, bought it, sold it. Or they sold this stock, a replaced it with stock, Z. OK, so they keep on doing that. OK, this is called as the churn ratio or portfolio turn over ratio, OK, in simple language. So what is the lesson that we learned? That is there anything like buy and forget? No, does Mr. Warren Buffett do buy and forget? No, does fund mutual fund does buy and forget? No, any mutual fund does buy and forget. No, OK, if you want to buy and forget, where can you do buy and forget? Index. OK, so that's where you can do buy and forget. And if as a retail investor, if you're only investing in index, it's completely OK. Can you make more money than mutual fund managers just by doing pure index? Yes. If you're not making broad mistakes, you will be able to do it. OK, so I hope that this point is clear. OK, third key point, right? Should you sell your index at certain stage? The answer is yes and no. OK, so now what is the meaning of that? Well, if the if the technical indicators are telling you to sell, you sell. OK, now if things look overvalued, you sell. And there are multiple ways of figuring out if the index is overvalued or not. So index a name and I'll tell you analysis. So let's start with maybe like nifty 50, OK, so nifty 50. And I will now, so there are three or four key things or three or four key strategies that I will collectively teach. So hopefully it will make sense. All right. Wow. So, see, now there are multiple ways of checking if an index is overvalued and are valued yesterday. I had covered some topics like that. OK, you look at it from a five year, 10 year basis. That's a fundamental basis of analyzing index. OK, so I'll not repeat that. Second is that you look at trend. OK, so this is called a trend analysis. And there are two, three ways in which you can analyze trends. OK. Now, I had covered earlier that this is called as an uptrend, right, higher highs. This is called as a downtrend, lower highs, OK, or higher lows, no, lower lows, lower highs, lower highs, OK. So this is a downtrend, OK, this is an uptrend. OK, now this, if you draw like a resistance support line, right, you will be able to guess that, OK, this is in an uptrend. OK, so this particular thing is in an uptrend. And if you are trading the channel between this. Now again, it gives you an indication that within this uptrend, should you be selling or not? OK, so for example, right now, should you be selling index as per the channel theory? So we are here. Should you sell the index here? No, when should you sell it here? So at point A, should you have sold index? Yes, how much? As per your Shradda. OK, I don't know. OK, but here, definitely there is no need of selling index here. OK, is this a great buying point? Maybe, OK, so most likely, yes, OK, is this a great buying point? Point B. Yes, OK, is this a great buying point? Yes, is this a great buying point? Yes, is this a great buying point? Yes, is this a selling point? Point D. Yes, OK. So here, through this, through this channel trading in an uptrend, you can rotate capital. So the question today is that, hey, question we are asking here is that, hey, should you sell index? The answer is, I don't know. Should you sell index at point D? The answer is, yes, is a yes. Should you sell index at point A? The answer here is a yes. Should you sell index at point B? The answer is, I don't know. OK, so it really depends. OK, so I hope that this I was able to answer. This is one way. OK. The second way is something called as simple moving averages or MACD analysis. OK, so this is moving average analysis that we will do. So here, you simply go on indicators and here you will see a simple moving average. OK, and I do a paid plan. OK, so this is free. You can be done on trading. OK, so you click on that. Right? So you click, OK, and you will get lines like these. OK. Now here, what you do is that you go right and you zoom in. Right. And then you have to make some adjustments. OK, so here you go on settings. OK, we look at 50 and we change this to 150. OK, and we use 200. But for the timing, we will just close 200. OK, so we'll just press and click this. OK, and we will change the color. OK, so we'll change the color. OK, so we'll make this maybe black. And this will make maybe. Maybe blue. OK, so this is click. OK, why can't adjust the line size? I don't know how to do that, but I don't think the unpaid plan allows you to do it. OK, now what you will notice is that see, this is now what is the meaning of this black and blue line? OK, so black is 50. 50 day moving average. OK, black is 50 day moving average and blue is 150 dma. We had also spoken about 200 dma and we are looking at it on a daily candle. OK, now what is the meaning of 150 dma? It means the average price of the stock or average price of this index in the last 150 days. OK, 50 day moving average means the average price of the stock in the last 50 days. Everyone with me, nothing, no complication. OK, now here we look for three things. OK, so the first thing that we look for when identifying the trend is that there has to be a trend reversal. See, good thing is or a normal trend is where the blue line. Which is 150 day moving average line is below 50 day moving average line. This is the meaning of an up trend or a normal trend. Everyone gets this. OK, so very simple like gravity. Right, so for example, 50, 150, 200. OK, so gravity is like if you study physics, things come down. So heavy things come down. OK, so that's how you remember this. OK, so this is normal. OK, this is an up trend. OK, so for example, what is an up trend? So for example, this blue line is below black line. OK, I thought of sort of old. OK, I'll just double check this. If I'm speaking correctly, I'll see. So this is 15. So 50 normal will be blue is below and black is above. OK, so gravity, well, it's OK. So this is the normal trend. OK, so what is the normal trend here? So is this a normal trend? Right, October 20 sale, OK, from here. OK, so 2022. So can you say that this is an up trend as per moving averages? The answer is yes, why? Because blue is below black. Everyone gets it. OK, but to ride an up trend, what is the meaning of a riding an up trend? Because that is the goal of an investor. OK, now riding an up trend means what? Riding an up trend means that see, our goal is very simple. And we look for three things. OK, number one, we look for a great point of entry. Now, what is a great point of entry? Right, where there is a trend breakdown? Now, what is the meaning of trend breakdown? Trend breakdown means that normally like blue will be below and black will be above. OK, but when this situation changes, that blue is above and black is below, right? This is, this becomes a point of entry. OK, so for example, this is a breakdown. OK, so you can see that blue is above and black is below. OK, here this part, everyone gets this. OK, now this becomes potentially a great point of entry. And you can build like positions any point. OK, in this entire curve, why? Because a trend reversal has happened. OK, this is a great point of entry. Why? Because again, there is a crossover, which has happened here. Everyone understands? OK, now let's say, now let's analyze this entire phase. OK, so for example, three things need to happen. One is that the trend has to change. Now, what is the meaning of trend changing? One is that black blue thing curve on both should change. OK, for example, here did the black curve change? Answer is yes. Here did the blue curve change here? Yes. So what is your point of entry? It's here roughly here. Everyone understands? It's not here. Right here only black line changed at this point. Not blue line changed its curve. OK, wherever the curve changes, that's the point of entry. For example, here the black curve changed. But did the blue curve change? No, that pointed. But here, here black curve changed and here blue curve changed. Now, this becomes like a point of entry. OK, so roughly here. Right, so you could have entered position here. Everyone understands the small point. OK, OK, right? So this is called as trend reversal. OK, now let's say that we are able to successfully figure out a point of entry. Now, we have entered really well. It is like buying a distressed real estate. That houses were getting sold for one and a half. But now suddenly there is a price dip of one crore. You bought it. OK, now that was a great entry. Congratulations. Now, what is the second goal of investing? That you max out the trend. Right, you OK, till the time the way real estate is running up, you stay invested. Right, and if you sell too early, then you are missing out on gains. But if you sell at the right time, then you are maximizing your profits. OK, so this is the meaning of trend riding. So for example, from here to here, right, here, this is blue line. This is black line. So this blue is below black. OK, so this is normal trend till here. OK. Now, how much profits you would have made if you did that entry? Right, so from here, you would have entered, right? And you would have downward average it also. So conservatively, worst case scenario you would have made 60%. OK, everyone with me. OK, now then what happened? Then trend reverse again. So for example, this is blue line. And this is black. So trend reversed here. OK, so how much losses you should have booked or like, you know, it fell by like maybe say another 10% and you should have exited this particular trade. This entire trade, you should have at least booked some profits, maybe like 60, 70% profits you would have booked, took another 5% hit, right, and got out. OK, or if you are looking for a point of entry, you could, if you have no positions, then this becomes your point of entry. Have you an understands? OK, then what do you do? Well, I will just clear this so that it's easy. Easy visible. OK. So then here we have booked profit and we have concluded our first major trade. OK, so everyone understands how we entered. So that was a great entry point. We wrote the trend. We made like 60, 70% conservatively. Then we booked 5% loss from the top, right, and exited 70, 80% of the positions. OK, now then the trend has changed. Now it fell. So when should we have exited this? We should have roughly exited here. OK, so here we would have exited it, right, and then when do we reenter? When the trend changes again. OK, so this is here we don't enter. But if you have free money lying, then we can enter here also, not an issue. OK, that's, that's OK, if you don't have any use. But our next trade when we will be when there is a trend reversal happening or an uptrend is getting formed. OK, now what is uptrend getting formed? So uptrend is see again the curve changed here, the curve changed here. So this is where the start of trade to happens. Everyone understands why? OK, so this is a point to be fully invested. OK, so here you are fully invested and what is the goal here now? The goal is that you write the trend as much as possible. OK, so we start writing the trend from here roughly. Until what point do we write the trend? We write the trend at least till here. We pocket roughly 46.3% profits. OK, now trend has changed. OK, so now if you are over invested in the market, you will book some profits. Everyone understands? OK, now what is the third trade where should we take the third trade? So for example, if something like this happens, so here it is already in a downtrend. OK, so I will just because it's a little bit complicated. So I will just write it in points. Number one, is it a good time to buy build positions here? OK, the short answer is we are in a downtrend. So the answer is yes, OK, you should definitely buy market. Right, if you are under invested, you should definitely invest like 70 80% of the capital should be invested here. Maximum 20%, you can still keep on the side if you want to perfectly time the trend. OK, so what would be the perfect timing of this trend? OK, the perfect time. So timing of the trend would be that, see, if something like this happens, OK? If we find something like this, OK, so I will just draw this cleanly. OK, so then what could happen is something like this, OK? Something like this, OK, or some variant of this, right? So this is what? This is another uptrend, OK? So where is major money made? Now don't look at it like, you know, like, you know, like a conjuice person, OK? I have to maximize everything. You have to understand the broad picture. See, major money is made when when you are buying a downtrend, number one, and you are riding an uptrend. These are the two most critical things. It's not about buying the absolute bottom or selling the absolute top. It has three parts, number one, buying a downtrend. OK, second is riding the uptrend and third is exiting or partially exiting some partially exiting when the trend gets exhausted. This is the game that we need to play and MACD slash simple moving averages helps us play this game. Everyone with me, OK? And this works beautifully at an index level. And if this is the only thing that you can do, you can keep doing it. OK, when will this completely get over and you can look at it, right? And let me back back test it. Feel, OK? So for example, right, if we study, right, this, right, this is above right here. Please note that the blue curve hasn't changed. So we stay invested, invested, invested, invested. We would have made crazy money between 2016 to this time, OK? Because here is like a trend reversal. So we would have entered here, right? And we would have exited roughly at 65%, which gives you like a CSTR or hopefully, at least 16, 17%, right? Just on pure index, OK? Here is an exit sign, right? Now comes the question that can we exit like, you know, very easily these type of faults, the answer is no, we can't exit these type of parabolic faults. Faults, right? I mean here, what is the meaning of parabolic fault? Parabolic faults is a very sharp fault. OK, so there is a very sharp like within two months, the market corrected very sharply, OK? Now the chances are that you might not have been able to exit this, right? And it's OK. It's not end of the world. But you would take a loss if you don't build more positions here. OK? So two, three key takeaways that I will give you. Number one, if you see a down trend, definitely, build positions. Number two, ride the up trend for as long as possible, OK? And if possible, right? Exit the trend. Unless of course, there is a parabolic fault. OK? In case of parabolic faults, we can't exit the trend. It's very difficult, practically speaking. But if you keep doing these three things consistently, you will beat 99.99% mutual fund managers. Why? Because you're already buying a high quality asset, right? If you're just going to be an active fund, you'll be like individual stocks, you'll be able to get all that stuff. But if you just simply ride these trends, you will be able to beat like 99% of people because you're doing regular profit-booking as per what the charts are telling you. Everyone understands, OK? Now strategy for 2025, OK? So what is happening? Now, what is happening is, right now, if we take a look, for example, if you are here, OK, so let's analyze like two, three points, OK? Point A here. So there is a cross over which is happening. OK? Now let's assume that we don't know anything about this part. OK, so this part is not there. OK, so we are just somewhere here. Now what should you do at point A? Should you exit your investments? Let's say that you have like 10 lakh rupees in the market. Should you and you 100% invested? Should you exit? Not really, because the trend hasn't changed. Blue line is still intact. OK, if it changes, then we will book some loss and we will go out. OK, now we'll say, can you loss or just go loss? No, here we are assuming that you entered into the trend right. The first step is entering the trend right. OK, you're already on a very good profit. OK, so for example, from here to here, they are already on 36% profits in a matter of one year, which is very good profits to begin with. Now what happens if you lose or lose? OK, so it's not end of the world. So I hope that this first point is clear. We have to analyze trades from the point of entry. So point of entry needs to be solid to begin with. And you get. And what is the point of entry? Bring the downtrend right now. We are here. Now this is the start of a downtrend. Now I don't know to what extent will this go. Now, but are you buying a downtrend? Is your point of entry correct here? Yes, why? Because the trend still us, that the point of entry is correct. It's not me telling you. It's trend tell us. The chart is telling us that the point of entry is great. So should you be mostly invested in this time? The short answer is yes. 80 to 20 you can keep right. Even if you go 100%, you will not be making a loss on 3 to 5 or basis. As long as you are able to ride the trend. For as long as possible. So I hope that this point is clear. If you are over invested in the market here. So top tk, I thought as a cartel of positions and all that. So this is position sizing, which you will learn with time. But I hope that at least I'm able to give you a flavor of what it looks like. Right? That you have to start analyzing thing on when to sell based on your point of entry. If your point of entry is horrid, then it's just bad. I cannot like. For example, if you buy a house, which is worth 1 crore and you buy it at 1.5 crore, so you have already lost the game of investing. I can't do anything. I cannot suggest you anything. Right? I mean, beyond that. So your point of entry needs to be great. Sitting here, we have a great point of entry. Okay? For example, when I bought nifty, which was 15, 16% down, that was a brilliant point of entry. Okay? So that is where you do bulk investing. Okay? That is not the time to sell in the market. Okay? Who sells in the market during such times when the trend has reversed. Only like people who have no clue of what technicals are, what investing is. They are the ones exiting the market then. Okay? Now, many people love to ask that when do you think trend will change? I can tell you trend will change after like how will it change? I cannot tell all that BS. Okay? What I can tell you is that whenever it, I can help you build a system for, you know, sort of tracking this. Now, see, it can go like this also. Okay? Many scenarios can play out. If it goes like this also, then what will happen? Right? To this chart. Right? This entire thing. Right? It will fall like this. Okay? More position, whatever new money we are getting, what, whatever new money we are getting. Okay? So we keep on buying now. Okay? So this is, this is part one that is called as great point of entry. When I say the word point of entry, people just assume it to be a point. Here a point. Now, tell me. Okay? It's not like that. It's basically a buying range. Right? So we are, we are now in a buying range which starts from here. Okay? So, for example, if you are already fairly invested in the market, then should you be buying here? You need to wait to buy here. Okay? Then if it goes like this, should you buy here? No, you buy here. So you mix SMA technique plus you mix channel trading technique and that gives you a great point of entry. So your part one is done. Okay? Brilliantly. And if your entry is beautiful, then 99% of your problems are already solved. Okay? Why? Write the trend. Okay? So, write the trend means that whenever trend reversal happens like this and this and then you just keep on following that and you don't sell early. That is very important. Okay? And third is that you exit like whatever x percent portfolio depending on the market whenever the trend gets exhausted again. Okay? So this is what the right method of selling is. This is literally number one method of selling. Okay? So we execute it on index. This happens at a stock level also. And let me show this to you in action by applying this to mid cap 150. Okay? Mid cap 150. Okay? So we go. We apply the same technique. So this is here. You say right? Where did I sell? Mid cap 150. I sold it somewhere here. Okay? So I sold it somewhere here. Okay? I sold it here. Right? And. Like how much profits did I make? Right? And this was the last big trade that I taken. Okay? So I had entered. A free here. Okay? I had entered roughly here. This trade. Okay? So I made close to 100% profits on mid cap 150. You can watch my videos also. Right? And it will convince you that I genuinely sold somewhere here around this time. I started selling. Okay? Why? Because this trend was getting exhausted. Exhausted. Exhausting. Typically, I would not never sell like, you know, more than 40, 50% and all that stuff on majority of my things. But this I completely exited the mid cap and small cap index. Why? Because what I did was that I applied SMA with fundamentals. Now, what are fundamentals yesterday? What I taught you? Five air bases, three air bases, ten air bases. And then I started to sell it. I started to sell it. I started to sell it. I started to sell it. I started to sell it to my major air bases, ten air bases. If every indicator is telling you that small and mid caps are overvalued here at this point. This will tell you what percentage of small and mid caps stocks or small and mid cap index or whichever index you are trading in. How? What percentage of it should you be selling? Okay? To me, if every indicator is telling me that it's overvalued, then how much should I sell? Hundred percent. Okay? That's a very convincing trade. Okay, so and of course things can go wrong, right? Because I trained can reverse and this up move can continue and all that. But at this stage, I would have at least sold like 70 80%. So that's a minimum. And if you would have actually done 60 70% also, you would not be fretting right now. Right? Even after this. Okay. So I hope that this point is clear. This we have seen an action, right? And you can see me like and you know, selling this right? I'm on real time basis as I was making YouTube videos. Okay. So I hope that this point is clear to everyone. Okay. So I'll not like, okay. So Geerisha and the identity questions because this is a little bit complicated topic. Okay. So yeah. Okay. Hi, Akshath. In the nifty 50 analysis that we just did. You know, I was seeing that you know, 16 to 20, the rally that you showed. After that, there was a parabolic drop, right? And it was a point where, you know, you would kind of, you know, exit the position. Maybe not catch the trend, but you kind of know that, you know, your 50 is lower and your 150 is higher. Whatever. But you know, even between 16 and 20, there are points where that crossover is happening. It's maybe not as prominent, but you see that it's, it's very subtle. So how do you avoid exiting at those points? So for example, if we look at 2017 somewhere, like there is a crossover. 2017, if we go to the 17 or even this, even this point or you know, at 2017, there is one point. How? Okay. So let me let me like quickly explain it. See, so this is made up of two trends actually. And not one trend. Right. So for example, if you zoom in, you will be able to see it. Right. So for example, this is one trend. Yes. So this is one trend. Okay. Till here, you made like almost 30% and then the trend reversal happened. Okay. This is the start of the next trend from here to here. Okay. So you would have pocketed this much returns. Okay. So these are very simple to pocket, right from this point. Okay. And after this, there is a parabolic drop. Okay. Um, okay. Now this is another trend change. Right. So from here to here, it's another 10%. Okay. The idea is not to miss out on riding important trend. This is another key trend, right from here to here. This is a 47% turn up. Right. Now then small small trend change, right. So for example, here to here, there's a crossover at this point, you should exit something. Right. This is not a parabolic drop. For example, this part, this is not a parabolic drop. Okay. Here, you should be booking like 30, 40% profits at least. Okay. And then if you have exited your, uh, because of trend reversal here, you can start making some positions here, here, here, and as per the downward channel, right, buying it here somewhere. Okay. So this is how you invest. Okay. So this, it's not as if that you are exiting the entire index. It's just that key. You have the money and you have, you are taking advantage of a down rate. Okay. So that's what I just one more follow up question. This 50, um, SMA and 150 SMA. If you want to have an evil, even longer term view, would you do like a 50 and 200? Uh, I would personally not, right? Have 50 and 150 works better for me because the markets have become more volatile. Okay. So like on volatile things, for example, Bitcoin, you have to see it even on a shorter time period. Okay. So, but on nifty, 50, etc. You see it on a, you know, 50, 150 works best. Even 200 is fine. It's not end of the world, right? See, guys, I mean, there is no, like everyone builds their system. My system is 50 on 50. I follow that. If you want to follow 200, follow 200. Okay. So like, I follow 200 on consistent things. Right. I don't follow, uh, you know, 200 on, uh, other things, right? But again, you can add that to the mix and do whatever computation. The idea is to be broadly right. Right. Stock market investing is a broadly right investing. For example, there is no header leg to buying a land. Okay. You do it because broadly, it looks like a good deal. Okay. There is no header leg to like, you know, sort of again, as I said that, you know, uh, either you explore a pure arbitrage. Okay. For example, for me, US stock investing is a pure arbitrage. Why? Because there is 100% tax benefit for me. Okay. So already I am ahead of like, you know, 99% investors because I'm getting that advantage. Okay. And that's huge for me. Okay. So I can actually play this game more aggressively because for me, short term trading, uh, taxes zero. Okay. So anyone who talks to me, I don't, you know, I'll know the way I do it. Right. So this is the reason why. Right. And if you're serious about markets and if you have like, I don't know, 100 crore, 200 crores of trading capital, Madhi, Madhi, right. So I mean, for example, for example, for example, I don't know, it's like a four-hour trading area, for a few months, Ferrari, really, right. So that's not that too complicated. Okay. So I don't have a Ferrari. My friends have a Ferrari. I just tag along like, I mean, because in Dubai, I'm not, I'm not hooked. Talked to you. I'm a big car. So I don't drive. I don't drive. You're at risk. Right. So I don't drive. I don't drive. I don't drive. You're at risk. Right. So like, I don't do all that. Okay. I only take taxis. I am very happy taking taxis. Okay. So I'm an accident accident. I do a taxi. I don't think it's a two-seater taxi. I do a taxi. Right. So that's a two-jelly. Right. So it's a risk-learning. Right. So that's a simple point. Okay. So that's arbitrage. But when you're going to consistent compounding or consistent things, it's about system. Okay. So my system is 50 on 50. Okay. If you want to have all over the different system, well, and good. No problem. For me, I work with the assumption that the US market and the India market are bullish. At least for now, they are bullish. I don't know when that will change. Like become like Japan market and all that. That's different. Right. But at least as of now, they are bullish. So I work with the assumption and the biggest loss for me would be when I'm unable to ride that rate. Okay. Or exhaust that trend fully and when I sell to early, yeah, that's a problem for me. And I'm just sitting on cash and doing nothing. Now, this is especially true if you're in India or Indian tax resident because your risk-free rate of capital is horrid. Okay. Why? Because let's say that you have one crore. You invested that one crore. It goes to 1.5 crores. Long term. You booked that because that trend reversal is happening. Now you're sitting on, let's say, 60, 70 lakh profit in bank account. Okay. Now you're done. Every with it. Now you are making 4.5% post tax on it. Inflation is 6%. So every year, you're losing 1%. So that makes you impatient. And that's the worst thing that can happen. And then you're desperate to invest. And then you will unnecessarily buy at whatever prices. So I hope this is clear. When to sell, we will continue. Yeah. Just one last comment. Yesterday, you know, I asked a question and you'd said that, you know, I cannot tell you whether it's an executive or portfolio and I will start afresh. But I think some of the points you covered today really answered that. So it's going to be, I think, a free task, but it's for me to do. And I kind of understood, I will have to really break it down and look at each investment. So thanks for that. I think it clarified. Keep informing me guys. I mean, whatever you guys are doing. Right. So I'll go ahead. I have questions. Now, I'll tell you. Right. And then you become like my, what do you call human learning models? Okay. So I would not waste my time like, you know, tracking all this right. I mean, not at like scale every day basis. So I'll go ahead and tell you. Then I'll also adjust accordingly. Right for the US market. Okay. Yeah. That's good. Yeah. Actually, don't the same chart on the Nifty 50 chart. If you can just put that up. You have drawn certain horizontal lines. And I remember even one of your notes, you have said that you have sold Nifty 50 recently in the, because it has made that support line and you move that money into private banking. So can you tell us what is these horizontal? So this is more or less support lines. Right. So for example, there can be a channel support. Or there can be this type of support. So for example, there you can see the consolidation and happened in the past. Yeah. Just a minute. So for example, this right for example, if you zoom this, right, so there are multiple touch points here. Okay. So therefore, this is a support line. Right. This again is a massive support. Okay. This again is a support line. This is a weak support. But these are like all supports, which I've drawn like these orange lines. If Nifty falls like this, this becomes like my buying point from a support line concept. Now channel trading concept case, I'll say this is my support. Now both of these can coincide as well. Right. So for example, this buying point here is coinciding with this orange line. Right. So this is a very strong support. Okay. This is a resistance. Okay. So here I will not buy as of now. Okay. Unless there is a confirmation not like some other type of things. When you recently saw what was allergic, wasn't because of the touch the channel upper point of the channel. What did I transition? You said you sold it. If you can move it to private it. Yes. So because I was trading the channel. And again, if I drop in a downtrend, for example, this. So I sold here. Right. That's what I remember. Exactly. So I sold here. Because the channel exit. Exactly. This was. So I went like almost 8515 ratio. Till that time, this downtrend continues. I will just simply trade this because the chances are that I will. It will fall to here. Okay. So this is what I am anticipating. Right. That might happen. If not, it will go like sideways. Then again, this is a chance. If a break. If a what you call break out happens, then it will go up like this. Okay. Then the trend reversal will happen. Right. This blue green line. Blue black line will become something like this. I'll just mark it. So this blue line will become like this. Black line will become like this. Okay. So then this is a trend reversal. Then we just build much newer positions here at this point. So there is no upside. I mean, because most likely the trend reversal will happen at some. Around here, right. That's what my short term expectation is. Okay. So this is what I'm anticipating. Therefore, I sold like some bit and rotated it. This will come with experience. Right. I mean, you cannot apply the system like. Like without experience. So you will have to take like maybe 20, 30 trades and this will become a little bit more intuitive. Right. But I hope you got my point. Okay. Yes. Paul, I've already shared like an entire video on this. How to draw the end lines. Right. So please, it's that. Okay. Good. Awesome. Just Paul. Yes. Sorry. I was not able to find the raising hand all this while. So I just learned how to do it. Thank you for the opportunity. And just wanted to know because you just covered the trend line SMA. Okay. Simple moving average. So is there anything on the regression models as well like smoothening model or maybe forecast analysis because there is I believe Arama and Sarima as well. So is it. So will you be showing that to see any video on that which we can just because that was also. I'm an investor. I'm not a trader. Okay. The more I learn about technicals, the more trader I will become, which is a useless exercise, especially in a country like India where you're paying 20% STCG. The idea is like the idea of an investor to learn technicals is that you find a great point of entry which I've taught that you ride the entire trend. And number three, you exit partially or fully. Okay. So these three things as an investor is very important. Now there are endless things. I can teach you futures and options also. Right. That's not a problem. But the point is then that's nerdy thing for me. Okay. I like this thick book that I read that I'm reading on like options right now. But the point on US options and investing. But the point is that that's not tax efficient for you. So there is no point in learning all this that you know, Fabinaji retrace paint. Sorry to number then will it help me because see a buying you. I learned a very there is an inside that you have shared. But selling is wherein a lot of people face challenges that were to exit. Okay. So you're giving me the online for the SMA. But can that say if I believe that from this point when the trend is changing. So how would I define maybe that it is going going to go beyond that point. So can't. No, it can't. Right. And the reason is that when it comes to technical indicators, there are powerful technical indicators and then there are weak technical indicators. And they go in priority. Now if I teach you five things, for example, I taught you one thing today. Now if I teach you five things now, two will give you signal X green signal and three will give you or and two will give you red signals. Then you will get confused. Okay. Okay. And then you will give up because that's that's more suited to like technical analysis. We are not doing technical analysis on short term trading basis. This trading view software can be used by high frequency trader that trade on seconds basis. Okay. It can be used on hourly basis, 15 minute basis, five minute basis, one day basis, one week basis, one month basis, one year basis. Okay. So now for us, we have to number one define our time horizon. So I have categorically said, in my day of halto kata in the air, I can when I bet look at like five, five minute candle and all that, we have a work to do right. I mean, we have like other things going on in our life. Right. So we pick our investment system where we can. We have first and foremost, we create a viewpoint that whatever money we are bringing to the market. It's at least for two to three years. So this course is entirely designed around that. So therefore, the only indicators that I'm teaching you is like, you know, for example, cup with handle pattern, I'll talk about a little bit. What do fall I've already spoken about? SMA I have already spoken about. Is it beyond NIT? Yes, but that will create like conflicting image and you will get confused. So it will do more harm than good. Okay. So there is no point in you learning. You don't really need to learn. If you are a two to three year investor, if you say that he and what I'm like a positional trader, we'll deal with trading. It's a cow. I'm not the right guy number one. Right. So then learning whatever you are saying kind of makes more sense. Okay. So. Oh, shiqa. Yeah. Yeah, guys. So class is done. Right. I'll see you guys in the. Evening. Right. And in case you want to leave it's fine to not issue. I hope this was insightful. This was a little bit complicated. Right. What I taught today, but hopefully you're getting a hang of it. Right. So we'll cover like rest of the selling and US investing in the evening. Okay. Happy word. Shikha. Yes. Quite. Yeah. Two questions. One, if I want to be a buy and forget kind of investor, but if I have to move to indices in the state and start building positions, they're going forward, what is the percentage in which I should distribute my capital across indices, which indices. That's question one. And question two is how do you distinguish between our resistance and a breakout? Okay. So let me explain resistance and a breakout in the evening or on some post. Okay. That's one second is that I'd already explained which indices you can pick as a beginner. Right. So there was seven eight. Right. So for example, mid cap 150, nifty 50, NASDAQ, which is QQQ. I'll give some US index names in the evening. So XXXXX. So that we will do in the evening. Right. But I'd already like if you revise the class, I'd explain those seven eight indices. Right. So just that should be good enough. Right. There is no buy and forget even on index. So but like index is the safest place to do buy and forget. But it's not as if that, you know, pay Sala Agaj, it's hot, the Akavi Deikan, it's like you buying a property and never going in visiting it. It's called, it's not called investing, it's called stupidity. Okay. So like don't do that ever. Right. Even when you buy a flat, at least go and visit it once. Okay. So that's an important point. So yeah, say that. Yeah. Just two questions. First of all, for the nifty 50, I think you said it's barely price. So if I look at a five year and a three year trend, it's roughly around 15, 16% return something which I checked in the trend lines. So currently it's fairly price. So I've not invested in index. So how much should I start with right now? Because it's in a downtrend. But as you said, it is in the downtrend also, it is at the high, high, I mean, upper high, something like that. So what, how much should you invest right now? So I'm just saying, see, on a three to five year basis, if you are doing three years basis, and it's a good time to start investing in nifty 50, right? And you should build like at least 60% position right now, 50, 60% of courage, hold though, then leave room for at least like 20% down, down 20% downward aperture. And same applies for the nifty private bank index you mentioned. Yes, you have true similar analysis. Nifty private bank index is undervalued. So I would pick like at least 90% position on nifty private banks now. Right now. Yeah. And you suggest again, in both roughly around 5% of the portfolio. No, no. So the hell you can pick bigger, right? So for example, nifty 50, even if you put 100% of your capital in nifty 50, it's fine, right? That's not because it's already a collection of 50 stocks. It's not individual stock that you're buying. Private bank ETF if you're buying that it should not be more than like maybe 30% of your portfolio. Because you know, currently I've been only doing mutual funds which I'll gradually stock because you know, that's how everyone has been doing. So I want to start building positions on one is indexes as you mentioned. And second is individual stocks. So I thought I'll start with indexes right now and then maybe gradually learn and do the. So you're seeing around 5 to 10% of indexes fine. And these index are good nifty 50 and bank private. As of yes. Yeah. Thanks. Thanks. Okay. So may you as I ask me a question, I'll just quickly take some questions on the chart and come back. Right. Hey, except you have sun, you are you're building portfolio for your sun. Can you share investments? Study whatever. I just want to know your approach to this nifty factors. See, I mean, honestly, like good investing is good investing. Whether I do it for me, I do it for my kids. It doesn't matter. So good habits are good habits. Whether you do it for yourself or your kids, it's fun and the same thing. That's how I see there is no special like skill required for your kids. Right. Now, I do it exactly the same way. I'll do it for myself. Okay. So, uh, users buy high quality assets and buy it at the right price. It sounds boring that I'm saying the same thing over and over again. Right. But I've shown you like enough examples that it works. Okay. So nifty 50 is a high quality asset. Are you getting it at the right price right now? I would say yes. Right at a decent price. Okay. Does it mean that you invest 100%? No. Like you invest maybe 7089 now if you're new and you wait for a trend reversal whenever up to 10 happens and ride that trend, then we will make money. Okay. Money will not be made in like next three four days because number one, you will buy it. Right. It's like buying a land. Okay. If you buy a land and you build a house on it, then you do interiors on it and then you sell it, you will get the maximum value. But if you just buy the land and flip the land like day after tomorrow, will you will your price go up like crazy? Typically not. Try to same happens on stock markets that you first enter well, then you wait a little bit for 10 reverse and then you wait like, you know, let the plant grow like let up trend happen, let people run and you know, create like, you know, noise, you know, stock market, the way you go. Right. So let them like buy more, let them give you exit on cook on the side, we are feel good. Right. So let them do it. Then finally, you sell your stocks. Okay. So when things look over value and you know, reprimands that's how it's okay. Sorry. Priyana, yes, good. I actually had two questions. One, I wanted to understand about the tax implications for an NRI Demat account like something I need to like just overall. Okay. I will send a note. My team had already prepared it. Right. So I'll see if I can find that one. I'll send it to you. Right. But the taxation is fairly simple. I mean, you have to pay tax on 12.5% on your India originated equity investments. So that has to be done. India, India denominated assets, you have to pay like same LTCG, STCG, okay, except for like FDs, which you do through your NRE, you have to pay taxes. So if I now open a new NRI or Demat account on that whatever the turns I get is a 12.5. Yes. Is what you're saying? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. The other thing was about moving money like we were actually I have certain capital in India, which you know, if we are planning to invest in real estate in the by and we are looking at distress sales in that case, we need the capital like ready in hand and which means like moving a chunk in a go. So I just thought that are there any insights from this? Now, you can move up to if you are an NRI, then you can move, then you open an NRI NRI account and through your, then you can transfer up to a million dollars. So that's not a problem and you don't have to pay any TCS on it. So it's all amount will come in here. Yeah. Three of tax, yeah. Yes. Up to a million. Yeah. Okay. Okay. In to an NRI account or sorry, NRI account. Yes. So you have to first convert your savings into NRI slash NRI account and then you bring that money to like your whatever like to buy Singapore based accounts, right? And you don't have to pay any TCS on that because that's the rule. Right. So up to a million dollars, you will not call under LRS now. Right. So because you are in NRI. So you can transfer up to a million dollars if you have an NRI slash NRI account. Okay. Thank you so much. Okay. So please make WhatsApp group where we know so no interest right in making all these things because you will get scammed or someone then you'll say, except for a course, scam, okay, I said right. So no, like and then some people will start sending like a good morning message and rose with things. So so you're correct. So like I don't want to waste people's time. So right. Rajesh. Yes, quite. No, you have to unmute yourself, Rajesh. Yeah. Yeah. Hi. Thanks for the opportunity action. I just would like to know. The arbitrage fund can we use it instead of keeping the money in the saving accounts? See, it depends. I mean, so honestly like be clear about why you're investing or putting money somewhere. Okay. So for example, if you're putting money in Dubai real estate, assume it will not grow in value. It's a great excellent cash flow. If that makes you happy, invest. Okay. Similarly, if you're putting your money, keeping your money in FD slash savings account, it's opportunity money, which is easily accessible to you. So for example, if you start seeing the start of an uptrend, kill your FDs, bring that money like whatever you can, flexibility, right. Bring that money there. But if you're putting it in a arbitrage fund, I don't know how easy it might be to be drawing all that. I personally do not do it. So I don't know. Okay. So like I'm just giving you like a rough thought process around it. Now you see what works best. Okay. There's another one like I just would like to know about the intra and the power sector. So is it the good time to invest into these sectors? It's cyclical, right. So you have to read it as a cyclical stock. So whichever individual stock you are taking a look at. So if those technical patterns are getting formed and then you buy it. But my hypothesis is that Infra and Power typically grows because government investments comes into that, right. And right now the issue is that the government spending has gone down, right. So and it it is likely to remain low over the next two, three years. I think I'll election here. So then they will start like in like 20, that elections next 20, 29, right. So I think, right. So like then 27 such rules. Sorry, there's another one in 50 right now. You said it's in the downtrend and when you draw the trend lines, it's touching the upper line. So is it the good entry point? Because from here, there is only six percent. I think so there's a broad. No, sure. No, no. So basically like there are two types of trends. So one is long term trend which we have analyzed from simple moving averages, which I taught you today. So based on that, you can buy. It's a buy signal. If you look at it on a channel trading basis, it's not a buy signal. So you need to wait, right. So now depending on how under invested you are in nifty 50, you make a call. What makes most sense? Right here. Thank you. Okay. Okay. What is the safe percentage of allocation on index any amount? I mean, index you can invest 100 percent because it's collection of 50 stocks. Any chance you can add analyze here in the NRI community here. Where it's I have I have I end the money account for US talks will I be able to do the same in capital gains by changing my taxes in the UI? You should be able to like I don't know who their broker is at the back end. What is your thoughts on next 15 next? Don't buy it right why because it's a confused asset never buy confused assets. Right. For example, nifty 50 is a collection of top 50 stocks. What is nifty next 50? It's like stocks might be falling from nifty 50 crap stocks and they are moving to 50 on 52 rank. So you're buying stocks that are getting beaten down right. Or you might be getting stocks that are moving from like 101 to 98. Okay, so you are buying like losers and winners. So it what's a benefit? Okay, so yeah, stocks like TADA Motors company stable two three. I should be not looking at buying support to under value and selling a resistance. See, this is not a technical play. Right. So I mean, as I said, all these technicals come only when quality when asset quality check is when asset quality is right. Okay, I do not trust TADA Motors asset quality. Okay. That's it. Right. So I'm in there for I'm not even looking at technicals there. Okay. So there are like so many things. NRO is not repatriable. Yes. NRE is the repatriable. This is a process. I'm in the process of moving money from India to UAE. So my bank has bank tells me it can be done. I don't think that's an issue from your so they converted my savings into NRE and NRO. But since I'm not moved money yet, it's a slight give me like maybe a month. Because I am myself moving money. It's well then inform you guys. Okay. One and a half I'll talk in the evening. Okay. Large cap fundamental with yes, you can. Right. So, I'm with that is correct. NRO is repatriable. Yes. 15 CACV. Yes. This is the form I'm getting right now. So that's that's that's the name of the form. Correct. It is quite complex process. No, I don't think this is complex. My CA was able to give me the form. I have to check him. Check with him. He is like my wife actually handles my finances. On this. So, there's a double check and tell you how complex it is to get like 15 CACV. Yes, they do ask for certain formalities. It's impossible to get money out of India like that's like a complicated one. It is legal. So you can do it. It will take a little bit of time, but it can be okay. And okay, opposite thing. If you are an NRI saving money in Singapore, US. Dubai. Should you be sending that money in India? 99% of the cases if not required, don't send it unnecessarily. Okay. Many people get excited. Okay. So, like, I have met like so many people in Dubai. Their thought process is that it was, you know, INR has fallen. So we will get to buy more INR compared to the Rums. So you will send money to India. You might laugh right? And it's like, it has more logic. Don't do that. Okay. So like this is the number one mistake that people are making from like, you know, setting in Dubai is sending money to India because INR is falling. And they'll get more of it. Don't do that. Okay. So it makes no sense. Percentage by distribution, Medicare. There is no hard and fast rule. You have to have that. You have to have that. Right? So when you eat as per your body type. Okay. So whatever you feel happy, just do that. Now, if, but yes, I mean, if your goal is to make like 15, 20% run up and all that, then it's different. Right. So like, I mean, if your goal is to make like, let's say, unexpected unrealistic gains. Okay. I mean, so 30% CGRG. Then you have to go to like small gaps only. Okay. I'll give you a simple formula in the evening. Right off generating like 15% between 15 to 20. And also I'll do that as a closing of the course. Okay. Tax for US talks for Indian tags. It's almost similar. The definition of long term is two years, not one year. Okay. That's the only difference I guess. Okay. I have seen YouTube YouTube accumulation happening. And some of what does it mean? Accumulation means that people are buying stocks. Okay. System of tools. Oh, my, my, my, my tools are a screen. I would have been team put together list of tools. I'm very doesn't need to extend. And I'm a a cleaner. I'm like teaching you live through all these tools. For example, I put to the tool in front of you on trading view. Right. So you can check that. I use this cleaner in front of you to analyze some stocks. Right. And that's exact analysis that you need to do. You don't need to do like more complicated stuff. Okay. How to determine fair value, undervalued overvalued overvalued stocks. Do I just read balance sheet and technical and decide? Or is there any other way? I so you look at like the growth rate profits and revenues growth rate for the company. Right. You look at the growth rate of the industry. And you look at the technicals. Keep on solving it. On the solving it. The return on a three years. Make it. And accordingly you do an analysis. Max is good to invest in sector for example, banks. See again, there is no head or leg to this right. I mean, for example, even if you invest like 100% of your money in banks, it's not technically wrong. But I would say that if you're starting, then at least have like exposure to four sectors. It will make you like little bit safer. Okay. Corporate bonds. I'm not packing any money. In India, it does not make sense anymore because you are taxed at slam. Yeah. After this course for any questions, I need to revisit your recording for a few complicated topics. How do you reach out to me? Okay. I'll share my email ID. I just want to. Okay. I hear UAE taxes and the paid acts on Indian stock, but not on mutual funds. So wouldn't it be good strategy to invest in mutual funds as UAE taxes? And why do you want to invest in Indian mutual funds? Why not US mutual funds? And that is also tax free. Right. So that's one right. And you will be screwed on remittance. Okay. That's my understanding. Okay. So that's the issue. Okay. Remittance charge. Okay. Landmark cards stock. I have no idea. Okay. Then why. So if I buy any UAE stocks, then I don't have to pay any tax. If you are a UAE taxer and then you zero. Especially with the regular updates on market, what are you in what you're teaching? Yes. So Rajesh, I'll. Okay. So I'll guys I'll share like an RI community link. Right. I'll ask my team to drop it in the evening class. Otherwise, you can just write to us. We will send it. It's there on our website. Okay. So you can check that. Okay. IDFC has 20 access to L which one do you think is better? Say IDFC first is a branch expansion game. Access bank is a mature bank. So you can't compare access bank Barapi with IDFC first 20b. Okay. I'm expatriating to US. Could you recommend how do I start in the US market? Okay. So start with ETFs. So today I will teach you a little bit about ETFs. So I think that will kind of be an be an intro to like US stock investing, which I'll give you. Right. And if you are going to spend a lot of money and guys are like no interest in like self promoting the courses and all that. But my US investing core, it's not US investing course. I'm like literally helping build portfolio. So if you are doing that great time like to start considering US stocks now. Can you invest Indian market MF from so I don't need to take tax? Can we invest in Indian markets, mutual fund from Singapore? You will have to pay tax. That's what I know. Right. So foreign investors are not exempted. Mutual funds get through if you are doing it. Then people are telling me that it's tax free. But please check on FX rates. Because what I get is fine. You're not paying any tax. But if you're paying one and a half, two percent commissions just to change money from US dollar to INR, then booking profits in INR, then taking it back into USD. This entire FX might add up like two, two and a half percent commission, plus mutual fund commissions. So I highly doubted that it is being done at no transaction cost. So just check all these finer points. And same applies to Malaysia. Can you assist on investing? Like what assistance do you own? So let me know. I'm actually doing like the Bay Bay's workshop where I'll cover real estate, UAE stocks, US stocks. So that's a good course. In case you guys have time, I'm doing this on 20th, 21st April. Right. So two online classes. And then third, second or third or third of fourth, like which is on weekends in May. So if you have plans of moving to Dubai, etc. So the primary USB of the course will not be me. The primary USB of the course will be that you'll get to meet like 150 to 100 odd investors in Dubai and build that network. This is very, very difficult to do in Dubai. Dubai is a very lonely place. People are extremely busy. So getting that network, getting that community is super solid. Right. So an honesty like coming in, you know, I'm not making much money on that workshop because the hotels itself charge me like 40 likes. Okay. For two days of workshops. So I don't make anyone. Right. So I mean honestly, I'm just doing it for building community. So just see if that kind of makes sense. It will be nice. There is no such thing as super trend, but I explained you about trend. That's more than enough. Per a sector, 25% for starters. 5% and 5% but because of the 5%, 10% analysts, 10% and maximum one two stocks, we can have an unlisted. No, I did not say one two stocks and unlisted. I said max. I see unlisted stocks as small cap stocks only. I have 20% in stocks remaining index, mutual five percent rule of stock. No, so 5% rule is on individual asset. For example, Nifty 50 is not an individual stock or one asset. It's collection of 50 assets. That's fine. A mutual fund is a collection of multiple stocks. So if you have like, I don't know, 30% on parath parath, something like that. That's also okay. So yeah, that's what I would say. Yeah, in the send bank, I don't buy. Okay, looks like it is heavily discounted. I don't know. Okay, so like, do you have any goals on how to move to UAE? Yeah, so this is like precisely, we will talk about in the Dubai workshop. So this is happening in Dubai. Right, so you can come. I'm most likely going to do it in business, we are downtown. Right, so. This is perfect for you. In case you are looking for that. Okay. I live in India, any way, open bank accounts in up over the by yes. So for example, this is called as offshore banking accounts, which you can open. Right, so but here you need to maintain a fairly large deposits with those banks, even ADCB. Right, in Dubai can help you do it, but you need to be an excellency customer. I checked with my relationship manager. The requirement there is that you need to maintain a 500,000 dirhams deposit with them, which is approximately 1.2 CR. Yes, oh yeah, that's their basic rule. Some banks, for example, what's the name of, I think it's called HSBC. So HSBC Singapore allows you to open bank account. They're the deposit requirements are less, but this keeps changing. So you know, when you have to check with them directly. Registration, yes, it's on with much, right? Thoughts on FMCG, I already shared like HOL, Nestl, or fine companies, as long as you're buying them below 200 DM, right? Here is super trend in trading only. I like, I get all this, I'm seeing there are like, you know, more than 1500 indicators. Now, how many will I teach? Right, and how many will you keep on tracking? But that logic, you know, you will require 25 hours just to run like all the trends like on trading views. So just learn the important ones. That's more important, okay? Okay. Himani, all. Yeah. Yeah, my question was like, let's say if I add all of my portfolio, which has the mutual funds and the index funds and the stocks, the five percent I calculate based on the total portfolio size or individual stock invested size. No, so if you have a portfolio of one crore in equities, which can be a combination of index, mutual fund, and maximum you can buy HDFC bank is 5.6. Even if I have only HDFC, let's say only one stock, I can invest 5.6, only in SFC. Yes. Okay. And I think the result of India, if I invest in the US based stocks, let's say through the, this, vested app, then the effects, I have to pay based on the Indian regulations or based on the US regulations. Indian. So they will charge you like Indian rates because you are transferring money from Indian bank account because vested as a partnership with HDFC. So the effects is being decided by HDFC. Okay, not vested. Okay, so I still have to pay 12.5 for all of the net profit that I'm making. Okay. Yeah, that's all. Thank you. So that and Paul. Okay. Yeah. I have to unmute. Hi. Actually, I think he had an, I already asked. Sorry. Okay. Paul. I'll ask. Yes, actually, good morning. Actually, I am doing a manual SAP plus Lamsam in 150 index fund for a long time, for keeping it like in a retirement and for my children education. So what I came to know that after learning the SAP plus Lamsam, this dollar cost averaging not works in the long term. Say, for example, after 15 years, 20 years, that much difference it will not create in the long term, this dollar cost averaging. So what is your opinion on it because I am running a manual SAP only in 50 index fund. Whenever the market goes down, I will put some amount. I see in your video, you have guided that step down and slow down of the SIPs. When the market gone to the top, that time I have reduced my SAP and manually SAP. I am running my manually SAP with some Lamsam at some opportunities. So what is your opinion about this Lamsam plus SAP in the long term go? I don't believe in SIPs. I've been quite vocal about it. It's scam. So why? Because again, you stop booking profit. SIP means an automated investment plan. It only works if the bullishness, structural bullishness in the economy, in the structural bullishness in the markets continue. In the Indian markets continue. Let's put it that way. So this means that you need to have like structural long term growth, which is beating typical growth estimates. Why will this happen in India? I don't know. We are bad at manufacturing. Our service sector used to be of IT. It's going through a massive transition. Maybe for good bad. I don't know. It's pure domestic consumption economy right now. Like I'm not saying that it will collapse in two years or three or something like this. But the bottom line is that why there will be more than seven, eight percent growth, which was expected from India in the last, like in 2000, from 2000s, when people started betting on the Indian market. Last two to two and a half decades, there was a clear indication that, you know, India can become next China. It will be like an eight, eight and a half, nine percent, ten percent growth rate. Right now we are saying six, six and a half because six and a half is what are we are saying. What we are going to do is seven and a half, which is not magic numbers, which does not indicate structural long term bullishness. There are other better emerging markets like it or not. If you just look past, if you just literally think like our national investor, lot of countries, for example Vietnam, are growing faster than India now. Go and visit yourself and see it. So SIP only work. If there, if the structural growth rate in the economy is very strong. This is not coming in India right now. Okay, so India is like being kept artificially bloated right now. Right, that's what a genuinely is happening. This is not a scare tactic that you move outside India. Something else and nothing else. That's not right. I mean, all these things take time. Right, they will take maybe a couple of decades. But you are planning your retirement. You're asking me a retirement question. Therefore, I'm telling you that SIP only works. If there is structural bullishness, which is not there, therefore, it does not make sense as a macro investor to invest. Okay, in SIP mode, it's a great trading market. Yes, also in one of your slides, I have read that what if we were taxed 30% LTCG when we retire? What the solution is said that more to more abroad. That is the only solution. Is there any solution if I'm doing the solution? You don't have right? I mean, then do real estate. So that's the only solution that you convert black, like the way all politicians judges and all that people are doing. Right, I mean, they are sitting on like crores of cash in their house. Bandhar Bandhar is the road. They're running out. Right, and all that stuff. So that's the thing. Right, and the reason why real estate gets like has been bloated so much is because of black money problem. And black money problem, we are just tagging it as black money problem. But it's more of a taxation problem. That in order to avoid tax, we will go to black money. That's right. Right, right, right. And you said in that we were three to five year investor. So how I can see that will it lead to a chance of that history code missing the 10 best days in the market? No, so I'm like three year investor means that I'm buying asset X today with a three year viewpoint. I'm not doing it forever. But if you're flipping that 50 and investing some other asset, I'm worried also. I'm I might reenter. So it's not as if that I'm missing 10 best days and all that stuff. Like so like I'm still buying like technically sound things at sensible levels. So that's what technical analysis means. So it's not as if that'll miss days. I'm still like whatever like 85 90% invested in the Indian market right now. Yes, I have taken like this. If you're invested for a long time on the 50 15 minutes, this kind of code missing the past 10 days can be avoided. I have think like that is that right? Maybe maybe not. I don't know. That also means like see you are just talking about the downside. That also means that you're not ever rotating capital. Yeah, that is a part of the rotation will be on the some other portfolio. And if this portfolio is only to keep for the same invested in the market. That's your strategy. My strategy is simple. Like the asset looks good. Today, if it is at a fair price, I'll buy it. If it is not, then I'll leave it. Right. So that's all I'll think. Thank you so much for it. Thank you so much. Please. I'm using an infrared for understood stocks. Is there a reference? Is the pricing difference? Should I? Okay, I'll share with you guys today. Right. I'll speak with the incorrect team that give some more discount to my students. Right. So they'll just I already have a account. Will I need to write to them separately? I don't know. Like I mean, this is between you and encourage. I would not be able to comment on what specific offer they will make. Right. So but they will definitely give you something. Right. And if you have a student. Okay. Okay. Okay. Basel. Yeah. Actually, I just want to know regarding the investment in the US stock. Okay. So you said that through Wested app, we can we can invest. But let me know like about from that 12.5 LTCG. Whatever they government is charging. There might be some like when I when I put money into the like there's a there's a money which gets transferred right. You are a rupees two dollar for that. Also, they they are going to charge a heavy amount. Yeah. That's charged by HDFC bank. So if you even make a transfer from India for your school fees in the US, you have to pay our. Uh, FX rate. FX rate. So what would be the charges? Do you know anything? So that depends on HDFC banks, D charge, right. And whatever they are offering on that particular D. So so while okay. So once that is done, uh, when I book my profit, again, the US to, uh, uh, rupee charges would be there, right? If you bring it back, yes. Okay. So that that means that means I will have to book a profit of almost 35 40 percent then. So that 12.5. See, uh, here is here is a beauty of it, right? And this is this I'll cover in the evening also that technically you don't need to book any profits in the US. You don't rotate capital in the US, right? At least as of now till the time you're not structurally sorted, right? So for example, if you're sitting in UA, okay. Now UA the USD to the rum conversion is not a problem at all. Why? Because it's linked one on one. Okay. So there is no loss of FX, right? In terms of converting USD to the rooms. Okay. So you're not also the transfer charges are low from US bank to UA banks and vice versa. So you're not losing any commissions plus you're not paying any LTCG STCG. The moment you start book and STCG LTCG only comes when you're actually booking profits. So right now you're doing investing, sitting in India. Let's say after 15 years, you have an opportunity to be a next resident of UAE. We don't know 15 years is a long time. A lot can change in your career, etc. And let's say and whenever that opportunity is there, you can take out profits from the US market and get it, right? This was the biggest opportunity that I did in my life that I did not diversify early in the US talks because I always thought I might have a semi tax burden. But I never thought that in what if I change my tax residency, then this is not a problem for me. I can then start booking profits subsequently. Okay. So I made a mistake. I made a huge mistake of not building too much positions in the last five years. This is the biggest investment mistake I made in the last five years. Because I did not think about it from a tax residency perspective. So if you're operating from India, then you'll have to bear all these charges, all these things. You don't have any other choice. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Bezel Hanket. Hi, Akshay. So Akshay, right now, the unlisted stocks are such like the slot sizes for NAC is like about a lack. And I like recently, like two months back, I invested somewhere around 55, K in Poyo, right? So my portfolio size is not that big because of course, I'm not at the stage of like I recently started investing about two years back. And of course, the psychologically is the main thing which I considered, like, you know, you have to verse, learn psychology because, you know, the fear of buying stock and fear of, like, you know, loo, foremo and all these, these situations will make you, you know, lose a lot of money in other way, mainly, right? So comparing my portfolio size, so if I want to invest in unlisted stocks such as like HBD and SBI and your NSE. So the portion size of unlisted stocks will go about 25 to 30, probably 50%. Yeah. How do I handle this situation? Because like, I mean, I do 20 K investing every month and because, you know, that's the portion size that I can take out from my salary. And, right? So that's one question. And second question is like, whenever the, uh, Oyo will be listed, right? And it's in stock market. So 55, like 55,000 in one stock is probably like 20% of my portfolio. So should I like book some profit, like probably 50% of profit, like, you know, and rotate that money to some other capital because it makes no sense to have like that much of exposure in just one of those. So, short, short, short entries, you don't invest in. So like, I mean, there's no compulsion that you need to buy like unlisted stock if it's overstretching your portfolio. So the idea is not like, for example, I can speak like great things about like go a real estate and you know, Dubai real estate, but only if it kind of makes sense for your portfolio, then you should enter it. So do not violate your rules. That's a simple point. I mean, if I'm saying 5%, it means 5%, I'll not go back on my word. Right? So just to make you feel nice. Okay. So, uh, if it is stretching your portfolio by more than five, don't invest that's the simple point. But, but I, if I think of like one year perspective, because I, I get to invest about 2.5 to 3 lakh rupees every year, like if I take 20,000 rupees each month, then I can increase with time, right? So, if I think with a one year perspective, like then investing in one or two or probably three unlisted stocks, uh, you know, one year time span makes a little bit sense for me, right? You know, then I think like my portfolio is right now 5 lakh. In one next one year, it will go to 7.5 or probably 8. And then the portion size like the portfolio percentage will not be like 20% and then it will come down to somewhere 10% or probably 8%. I think like that, like, like, is it a, I mean, I understand like the strategy should be like, should not go 5% beyond 5%. But, you know, having a very little, you know, money to invest every month. Well, see, that's a, that's again a call that you need to make, right? I mean, I cannot say, I can just give you the rule that is, see, boss, this is what I'll say, 5% do not violate that limit, right? Because what it does is that if something bad happens with NSE, you are like 25%, 30% exposure of your portfolio to NSE, then you will lose interest in investing. That's not the point, right? The point is that take risk, which you can digest. Okay. So don't take unnecessary risk, right? So I mean, living way below, so this is like living way below your means while I angle. Okay. So like that way, you will, you will always stay in the stock market, right? And if you are staying in the stock market, the stock market will always give you opportunities to make money. But if you do madness that, okay, one stock, 30% of my portfolio, crazy way to have taken, then you will get wiped out one day, maybe not on this, maybe some other stock you'll get wiped out, and then you will stop investing, and then you have killed the golden egg laying hen, okay? Right, right. But thank you. So call that you need to make this is not something I can stop for you, okay? Right. Thank you. So yeah, let's go with that. Okay, hi, actually, um, classic problem, didn't gain bright education. I've been now investing in SIPs for over a decade now, sizeable portfolio, confused about a good exit strategy so I can buy worse if I would you suggest just selling what you got or is there a, uh, so first thing I'll say is that whatever change you are making after this course, like I mean, you have to make it slowly. Don't do anything knee-jerk, right? So for example, let's say that we have 100 units of investment on mutual funds. You are struggling to exit. Start taking out 20% of the money. Now let's say that tomorrow you take out 20% of the money from mutual funds, right? Then what can you do? Well, you can right now you have a reinvestment opportunity, which isn't nifty 50 or US dollar. You directly buy those, right? 20% of your problem is solved. Now let's say that downtrend continues, then you take out another 20% from mutual fund, immediately rotated to like 50 or whichever investable assets are. Then suddenly you get a point where you are at 50, 50% direct stocks, 50%, like 50% not direct stocks, I'll call 50% assets directly in your control, which you can sell by rotate capital on. So getting that control is critical, okay? So yeah, so I mean, that's what I would recommend. I have 100% control over my investments, okay? So I even mutual funds indexed, I mean, mostly I can sell it whenever I feel like selling it. I know where exactly my money is going. So whenever you have the opportunity to invest, like for example, if you 50 today then take away a little bit, you know, purposeful rotation. Oh, all right. Rishi Keish, Harish. Yes, hi, Akshed. Rishi Keish here. So I'm investing in stock market since last two to four years. And I'm making around 15% invest profit much. And because of that, my relatives and friends asking me to just make ourselves as well and giving money. And so I'm taking their money and making the profits. And I'm cut my profits some percentage and give them back their money. So is it legally in India or shall I? Bye. No, it's not illegal in India. Correctly. What you're doing is that you're doing, you need a license for this. Technically speaking, if you're relative reports you, then if you're doing this at scale, then you can enter into legal complications. But this is not legal. You cannot manage other people's money without a license, okay? Do I manage anyone's money in India? No. Zero people. I manage money. I don't even get portfolio advice. Okay, so why? Because that's illegal to do it in India. I can manage an RI money. Right? So on like hedge fund through my hedge fund, which is legally registered in UAE. But what you're doing is illegal. Okay. So shall I, what that can illegalize it? So I can found out you need like a, yeah, so you need to take a valid license for how you want to register. Do you want to register it as an alternate investment fund? Do you want to become like, you run a PMS right? So I think it will fall under PMS if I'm not mistaken. So then you register a fund and do it, right? Is it easy to get? Okay. No, okay. So it will take you a year to get it. Okay. So that's a lot of complications. Okay. Yes. That's it. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Harish, yes. I actually started investing in stock market from last year onwards. So initially started with the ETFs. I found them like for India for US for US, I found like a month 100 MAP and ETFs. Mount 100 MAP and ETFs. So I registered some amount in the last year. So my question here is, I mean, recently, only, I mean, after discussing with you, I got an investment but I stood up and initially I was not sure about that one. So if there is an opportunity to invest in a US Nasdaq fund, so is it good to invest through to 100 which is trading in VSE or through the West Shut up or the eat that. Look at West. Always have control over your money, right? So I mean, for example, what ends up happening is that if you're doing it via like some mutual fund in India, then there's two layers of commissions. Okay. So don't directly buy it through your US broker, right? So basically what West is allowing you to do is that they are allowing you to buy through a US-based broker, right? And keep that money separate. Don't you know mix it with India, right? So whatever US portfolio you're building, just keep it completely out of India, right? Don't buy like Motila, Losval, Phalan and I'm like, you know, NS Nasdaq fund and all that from India. Okay. So because that's still tied to your Indian bank account. If for some reason you become a tax resident of UA, you will not be able to move your India money. Even invested in US stocks to that tax residency destination. That's the biggest headache. And I have one more question. So the SMA and the trading technique we should hold so important in NS, it's very helpful. Actually, I also ask the same question regarding next 15 index. So is it you apply the same strategy and other indexes like next 50? I don't know. It's only do it on, I only do it on nifty 50. I do it on see by clean index. For example, you understand what when you're buying Nasdaq, that's a clean index. It's clear what you're buying. Nifty, Nifty, Nifty, Y-100, Moment, Phalan and I think that hybrid fund. It's madness. I mean, how would you define the underlying right? So there is no way to check the asset quality on these type of things. So don't buy Nifty, Nifty, Nifty, Y. There is a derivative of Nifty, Nifty, you know, like in a way. So just buy the original product as much as possible. But the P is also less right. I mean, it's crap. Asset quality is shit. No, so like I mean, Nifty, Nifty, Nifty, Y is the asset quality better than Nifty, 50. If your goal is to buy like high quality asset, then buy a good asset, which is Nifty, 50. If you want to speculate, then speculate on Nifty, have 150, why are you speculating on Nifty next 50? It makes no sense. It's somewhere in the middle, right? So yeah, yeah. Got it. So bump concern. Hi, hi, X-Shith. So the different candle patterns, breakout indicator patterns that you taught in the homework video. So are these applicable on like index stocks or also on the stable large cap stocks? It applies everywhere. Right. It applies to everything. Also the whole idea is stock. No, sorry, it applies to everything. Right. So it's not as if that this does not apply to everything. It applies to everything. Right. Whatever techniques I'm telling you, it applies to Indian stocks, US stocks, small cap mid caps, everything. Okay. Okay. And another question is, how many number of stocks you suggest I should have in a portfolio? So I'm following your YouTube communities in spas like one year and based on all the suggestions, I have already invested in like almost 35 plus stocks. I have followed the rule of 2.5 percent on small cap, 5 percent on large cap. So, let me say that if your portfolio is C, it depends on the portfolio size. If it's more than 10 lakhs, then you can have like around 20 to 15 stocks. Like around 60 lakhs. So, So that's good enough. So, 30 stocks, 35 stocks are fine. So, I should always stick to this number, 35, 40. See, by opportunities, for example, if let's say, hypothetically, you get an opportunity to add IDFC first bank, right? Hypothetically, okay. And you feel it's a good quality asset, but because you have 35 stocks, you don't want to go to 36. So, that's not the way to do it. Okay. Add the stocks first and then you rationalize your portfolio. Okay. So, for example, let's say that if you want to reduce your portfolio holding, now you have access bank also, I say, I say also, I3FC also, this is that also. Then you consolidate, you just have like top three, then you sell the fourth one, access or whatever. Right. So, that's how you'll do it. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Yeah. Hi, I'm Chris. Conch and Ravi. Yeah. Yeah. Hi, I'm Chris. So, can you talk a bit about your hedge fund? Also, what is the ticket size? And just in case if we want to invest, what could be the avenues? I don't take like retail money to be honest. Like not because I am like some kind of snob. The reason is that there's just too much regulation. Right. So, in hedge fund, there is less regulation. Therefore, I've registered it in UAE. Right. And what ends up happening in a hedge fund is, and I run a closed-end hedge fund, which means that if I see a 35% CGR opportunity, only then I will open around and take money. Right. So, last round that I raised, it was in 2023. Yes, 2023, and the gas price. Right. So, yeah. So, that's what, and closed-end means that I'm not taking money to take it, like every month. Right. I'll just raise the ticket, close it. Right. So, the last ticket that I rose was at like 5CR. Right. So, that's the ticket size. Right. So, yeah. So, my idea is to like, you know, just keep it small for now. Right. Generate good returns. And then subsequently, like maybe someday, like if I want to run like a proper retail fund, then I'll do it if I see value on it. So, as retail investors, we will not be well to a restaurant, right? There's no point in going to a hedge fund, right, for this, right? I mean, because the risk capital is way too high, right and half, like it just doesn't make sense, right? I'm dissuading you from investing in my fund. Okay. So, yeah. Okay. It doesn't make sense. Okay. So, thanks. Yeah. Yeah. I actually thought that would be this way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, actually, only two questions, small questions. So, first question is that so, I wanted to be here in the India throughout my life. Okay. So, should I invest in the US market? And second, if suppose I have, I'm going to invest, suppose one lakh rupees. Okay. If suppose there is no appreciation or zero appreciation in that one lakh rupees. So, what would be, if suppose I'm going to exit? So, what would be my total charges would be applicable on that in the entry and exit of that one lakh rupees, I transferred to the through Wested. So, these two questions are just wanted now. Okay. One second question depends on the scale at which you are investing, the more you invest invested or any through any other platform, you can negotiate better terms. Okay. That's one. Second key point is that it depends also on your FX rate for that day. Right. You'll be charged for extra transition twice. Right. One from sending money from India to the US and then bringing money from US to India. Okay. So, you have to pay that. So, roughly, how much it would be? Roughly, roughly. I don't know. So, that depends on day to day basis. Right. So, suppose today I wanted to do this. I don't know the rates today for HDFC Bank. You have to talk to HDFC Bank that what is the FX they are charging today. Okay. And how much was it is charging? Just double check with them. I don't know exactly how much. Right. So, you'll have to check with them. They are not charging much. Right. They are not charging. FX, they don't charge. They charge HDFC. They will charge you on per trade basis. Okay. So, what their broker is, let's say they make money by, for example, well, the driver is charging half a percent commission of what rates. Then they will get like 0.25 percent cut or whatever it is. Okay. So, that's how Wested will operate. Wested is not charging you an FX per se. Right. So, just double check whatever like they are telling you. They will be in a better position to explain. I'm not like employee of this. Oh, no. I'm not like, and first question answer. That was that you want to be in India and does US talk investing make sense? Wait for the class today. Right. So, it's about US talk investing only. So, if you feel that it kind of makes sense to diversify, then diversify the limit. Okay. Okay. Yeah. This Q&A will be available guys with the course. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. It's a important point. Right. Okay. Are we not? Yes. Yeah. So, Akshath, you know, the concept that you explained around the 100 and 150 days moving knowledge doesn't just apply to nifty 50 or does it apply to the other stocks as well? It applies to everything. Right. So, it applies to stocks also. Right. In the evening, I'll give you one two examples on individual stocks. Okay. Okay. Thanks. Got it. Okay. Guys, all right. Awesome. So, I'll see you in a few hours, guys. And I hope you enjoyed the class. Right. And I meet for the last class. Right for US stocks. And yeah. Thanks. Thanks so much, Akshath. Appreciate all the positive feedback. Thank you. Thank you so much. Okay. Okay. Bye.