Transcript for: Live Session III – Understanding Risk rewards of different asset classes Part 2 -
Transcription Date: 2025-03-30 02:12:56.048987
==================================================

 foreign buffet, hedge funds, all that stuff. So just give me a second. I don't know, like so many ads popping up. Yes, I want to close the ad. I would go close the ad. There's too many ads, man. So. OK, so whenever you see a very sharp for example, let's go and study like. If I as are exiting and di is are buying for the last five months, you're seeing, OK, this is not a parabolic fall parabolic fall. Typically happens around like 2000 credit the data for the last five months. What you'll notice is this right. So for example, here last five months, if he see red, green, red, green, red, green, red, green, that 20 2008 types, OK, for example, you know, maybe you are not right. So for example, 2020 if you go right. So this is again, here the market was handled right. So even in 20 despite parabolic fall, like, you know, when this was the case, right. So here for example, this was both the party selling no one buying, no one buying, right, no one buying, right, net selling, net selling, net selling, OK. So here, for example, why did parabolic fall happens? They just keep on showing ads one. How do I remove these ads? I don't know. So anyways, let me see. OK, so anyways, let me come here. Basically, what's happened here was that in 2020, right. For example, this fall. What you would notice here is that FIs, for example, sold 6,000 crores, right. And DIAs did not buy and bought like 500 crores. Yeah, only right. There is a huge delta between these two in percentage terms. OK, so it's rate at which money is getting out that creates parabolic fall. Everyone understands. OK, for example, if FIs sell 50,000 crore, but DIA is by 49,000 crores, this is a 1000 crore difference on a percentage basis of outflow to inflow. The percentage will be very less understood compared to this something like this. OK, here the percentage of outflow is very high. So this parabolic fall happens due to instances like these. OK, where FIs see DIAs, anyways, will buy the Indian market. Why? Because they cannot invest anywhere else. For example, when you are investing in quant mutual fund large caps, schemes in India, can they invest in Chinese stocks? The quant guys. They can't. The mandate of that mutual fund is Indian stocks unless they are specifically launching a global fund. Right. Recently, a lot of mutual funds, for example, a lot of people started investing in the US stock market and then mutual fund guys came and said that boss, we can't take your money. OK, they stopped taking a IP money, right? You can actually search that how many schemes stopped taking money for US investing. Right. So you can ask for complexity this question again, like wonderful tool. Right. You can literally like, you know, save a lot of time. So, mutual funds, just simply us, which mutual funds mutual funds stopped taking the IP for international investments in India. Right. So, for example, SBI mutual fund, 2025, right? right. Edelweiss, they all stopped somewhere around, like, December, again, like January February, right? Why did this happen? It is because of RB element, OK? So, then level two question, why did RBIP put limit? Because INR was getting weekend. Now when you give money to Motila Lozwal mutual fund, it becomes a vehicle for you for INR to get converted into USD which weekends are currency further and reduces our forex reserve and INR falls even more. Then third level question, who instructed RBI to institute this move? The government, okay. So here's the change, right? That government tells RBI to do something, right? The government tells RBI to do something, RBI tells mutual funds to do something and mutual funds make the clients pick, okay. For example, if you would have invested money in like January, February, all that stuff, you would have been in net profit in US stocks, okay. But you are unable to do it because this entire mandate was driven. That's case study one, case study two is that if you check FIIDI, buying selling data, whatever FII is selling, DII is will typically buy, okay. Imagine a circumstance that FII is also sell and DII is also sell. What do you think will happen? Like, one guy is selling 5,000 crore, another guy is selling for 3,000 crore. What do you think will happen in such a scenario? There will be a parabolic drop in the market, okay. So that's the entire story that I was leading to. So and what will happen if there is a parabolic drop in the market? There will be in a month, time, month and a half, time you will see like a 30, 40% correction, okay. So then comes the final question from my side that do you think that markets are independent or markets are managed? And what is the meaning of markets being managed, okay. It's 100% managed, okay. So that's the bottom line, okay. Otherwise there is no rationale why one big investor will be selling and another big investor will be buying, okay. Now who controls it and why do they control it? Because if you understand the incentive, you can possibly learn techniques to benefit from it, okay. See, it's a good thing that the markets are managed because then it means that your investment is safe because there are more vested interests at play, okay. For example, why am I happy buying like real estate in India, land, especially because I, because land is managed or land policies are managed by politicians. Politicians, judges, they are like that. So I know that property tax in India will be forever low, okay. Because the property tax in India is jacked up like in European countries, who will pay the most tax politicians, okay. It becomes a problem for them. So rather than making me, because I know this, therefore I'm okay buying like, you know, properties in India, okay. Now, if you understand these tricks about Indian stock market also, you'll understand, okay. So what happens here is like now, this is like both in a way dirty, right. And add the same time required, okay. So for that, let me help you understand the concept of order book matching, okay. So for example, if you check a look at this snippet, okay. What you will see is that someone is selling ITC stock, one order, right. And this order is getting matched and someone is buying ITC stock at 263.1, okay. Someone wanted to sell this stock and someone is buying this stock and zero the acts as a matchmaker between the two, okay. Then someone is selling 10, sorry, someone is selling three units at 263. And someone is buying at 263, 10 units, okay. Then 16 and 20. So this process of connecting sellers with buyers is called as order book matching, okay. Important point being that for example, if you look at it at a market level and let's work with the example, right. That for example, 500 crores of 5000 crores of Kotech Mahindra bank stock needs to be sold on 24th March, okay. And Warren Buffett wants to sell this stock. He's a seller. Unless he gets a counter buyer, right. Will he be able to sell it? No, right. For you to sell your house, someone needs to buy the house. That's the most important bit, okay. Someone for Warren Buffett to sell like, you know, 20 billion dollars of Apple stock, someone needs to buy that 20 billion dollars of Apple stock that day. For someone to buy Indian equities worth, you know, 35,000 crore in a month, someone has to buy that Indian equity for 35,000 crore that month. So who is the buyer and who is the buyer here, right. If FIIs want to sell. DIA, who is DIA? So DIR, HDFC, MC, want mutual fund, LIC, etc. Now what is LIC? Or quantum mutual fund? It's you guys doing your SIPs, okay. So like, you know, you are giving exit to FIIs anyway, okay. So that's the bottom line, okay. So that's the entire game, right. That someone needs to give them the option of exiting it. Now, okay. So I have spoken negatively. Now let me speak positively. Now let's imagine a scenario where FIIs can't exit. Warren Buffett wants to exit. Sell 10,000 crore of Indian equity. And he's unable to do it, okay. His money is getting stuck for like 20 days. No, there is no counter buyer, okay. There is no order book matching that is happening. What do you think Warren Buffett will do? They won't come to India. So therefore one could argue that, okay, these DIAs are also required, okay. And they have to manage the market. They have to give liquidity, right. Otherwise, what happens is it kills the golden world or golden hen, okay. And that okay, fine. Stock market, great place for Warren Buffett to come. All that stuff. He can sell cheap. Then he will take a loss. He will again never come to the Indian market. So the point being that you have to make foreign us or foreign investors very happy, okay. Why? For example, I'll give you another example at my level. For example, you guys do FDs at HDFC, bank at 7%. Seven percent, you pay 30% tax, you make net 5%. Okay. This is the net return that you're getting in INR terms, okay. And INR falls to US dollar by 4% a year or 3% a year. So your net return is 2% correct with me, math. Now if I as a NRI, give my money through FC and our account to HDFC bank, same bank. Guess the interest rate that they are paying me. It's 5.5%. Okay. So I will make 5.5% and guess how much tax I'm paying? Zero, okay. And that return I'm making in what? Dollars, okay. So I am getting 5.5% in dollar terms net. As an Indian resident, same money that I was giving to HDFC bank up until now, I would have made 2% net in dollar returns. The point is that getting foreign wealth into India is critical for India, okay. That's the game, right. So therefore they can't make NRIs unhappy and Indian government can't make an NRIs unhappy because they are limiting money back to India, it's strengthening the INR. That's one of the biggest exports that India has. Similarly, they India can't upset for an institutional investor. So when statements are made in the parliament, really stupid statements that we don't need like foreign investors, that's not, it's bad. Okay. So it should not be encouraged by you also, right. Because if foreign institutional investors starts going away from the Indian markets, it's a huge problem, right. So this is both required. The important key takeaway for you as an investor is that the markets are managed. If markets are not managed, then both FIIs and DIIs would look at the same data and sell stocks that month, okay. And it would happen very frequently, but it happens very rarely, okay. I hope everyone gets it, okay. Now how DIIs buy stocks, it's very simple. For example, who controls India stock market? Almost 20% of the money in the Indian stock market is owned by LIC. 20% of India stock market is made up of LIC's investment alone, okay. You don't even require like second party, okay. Now who appoints the chairman MD of LIC? Okay. Now if the government of India tells the LIC chairman, if he buys a Gharilayaka, then he stock, okay. But do you think he'll say no? But does he have the guts to say no, right. So the point being that this can be done at a market level, this can be done at an individual stock level, okay. You have to understand whether or not you want to speculate at a market level or you want to speculate at a RANI level, okay. All those points are there, okay. But the fact being that we just assume that you know, RBI decides a monetary policy of India. Which, why? I mean, it really depends on the government. What policy they want to execute? The RBI, governor gets changed. For example, Urjit Patel was an RBI governor, right. And he resigned, right. Because he was not agreeing with them and it. This happens not only in India, this happens at multiple countries. For example, Eruyan, who's the Turkish Prime Minister of President, right. He changed like five central governor, a central bank governors in a span of two years. Five, why? Because his point of view was that we will not raise interest rates, okay. We will keep the interest rates really low. And Turkey paid a lot of price for that poor economic choice. Governor came, they said that you're not boss. This is like wrong economic policy. He said, screw you, I'll change you. Okay, so then any change next guy, do you agree with me? No, okay, you also change. Like third guy, okay, you agree with me? No, so finally, bounce on one who agreed with him. Okay, and that's how RBI or sorry, that's how their central bank agreed with the government eventually. Okay, so that's how it goes. Okay, I hope that this point is clear. Markets are artificially managed. You can't do anything. Okay, so you and I are too small a fish to do anything on this. Okay, power gets replaced by Trump. How will it affect the US talks? Yeah, it doesn't matter, right, to be honest. This is beyond our pay scale. We should know this, right? But at the same time, it teaches us the importance of diversification, but you should not worry too much about it. Because if markets are being managed, what is our role? Our role is not to panic. For example, if you see this in the market, okay, if you see a parabolic fall here, what should you do? You should buy as much as possible on a parabolic fall. Why? Because what is the government's next step? Quantitative easing. They will release money into the economy. RBI will ask what? RBI will ask LIC to buy X crores of equities that day and stabilize the market. And this is your crazy money making opportunity. Okay, if you, if this slow decaying has happened, what is likely to happen? Well, side of his movement is likely to happen. Okay, they are waiting for time correction. This is what the macro class we learned yesterday, right? Here, what is happening? They are trying to, the, this will be panic. Step one will be panic. Step two will be sharp recovery. How? Because this can be done fairly quickly. Okay, this entire chain, the counter buyers will come and buy the dip. Okay. So if, but you can only execute on these things, if you truly understand how the system operates on the backend, are you understanding? If you don't understand this, you will see a parabolic fall. You will, you will just dress out and you will leave the market forever at a loss. Okay. And honestly, the most money you would have made wasn't 20 20. Those opportunity hasn't come back. I really hope market correct, but 70%. I'll be the happiest person. Okay. So I'm setting like on a lot of cash. I can do that. So that is the crazy money-making opportunity. That is where you and I, because we are extremely agile, we can invest a lot of money really fast and we can benefit. That is when generational wealth is created. Honestly, I was able to double my net worth right in like 2020 COVID, right? Because of this. Yeah. And I'm waiting. I'm very happy with that. Right? And I'm happy sort of doing it. Okay. Now, comes a very natural question. You see, very interesting theory, right? Have we somewhat agree? But what if the market falls permanently? For example, if a parabolic fall happens, like in 2020, and it falls, right? Then what happens? How are you sure? So sure that it will go back up. Now, here, what you need to understand is that you need to understand the concept of market participants. Okay. The first participant in the market is government. Okay. The second participant in the market is FII, right? Which are hedge funds, Warren Buffett, Redalio. Third participants are DIs. Fourth participants are retail people like you and me. Okay. Now, today, market is at 22,500. Okay. Today, right in 2025, right now. Okay. Now, let's say three years happen, right? 20, 28, market, stay there, 22,500. What will you do? Number one, you will stop investing. Agree. Okay. For example, this year, 30% people have stopped their NPS. Okay. For some reason, I don't know why. Okay. SIPs, that was started last year. They are all at a loss. You would have seen it on your SIP also. Okay. Because why? Because retail people worry about what? Retail people are very simple people. Okay. So I will say, if money is not getting made for me regularly, I will move away from the stock market. This is your first winning advantage. That if you don't play this game. Okay. You have to play the game, what top 1% are playing? You cannot play the game, what 99% people are playing to make money. Okay. So this is one that if for example, from 2025 to 20, 20, 28, if you see zero returns on your portfolio, your natural step will be, if it's a good thing, I will do every day, if it's a good thing, I will do gold, if it's a good thing, I will just buy land. Natural, right? I mean, you agree. Okay. So you will go away from the market. Correct. So for example, at its peak, there were, I think, around how many? Close to like two CR participants, something like this on the stock market. Now it is down to like one CR or something. Now by 20, 28, if the market does not improve, right? And it does not give you at least at 10% returns. The outflow of these people will be very high. Okay. A classic case study is 1992 scam or 1991 scam, Harsha Metha scam. For example, many of your parents would never have touched stock market because of Harsha Metha episode. Then they lost their life saving and since then, it became like a gambling, right? Kee, the Kaya Bhai, like in a stock market, Karnika Bakar, Jwaja, Jwaja and whatnot. So they do not touch it. So governments mandate or governments objective is to keep this game alive for real estate retail investors, okay? Make them do SIP so that they stay active in the market and this population, whoever can invest, invest. What's the benefit to the government? S T T, security transaction tax, GST, they will charge corporate tax because when you are transacting more on FNO, when you are transacting via Zeruda, Zeruda makes money. So Zeruda will pay corporate tax. There are 100 different taxes that government will make. Okay. Number two, what is the benefit for DII to keep this game alive? That, you know, by 2028, you will at least make like 10% C H DR, you're giving it. Okay. What's the advantage for FII? Sorry, DII. These are HDFC AMC, all the SIP. So SIP, the way it works is that you will do 10,000 SIP, give it to HDFC AMC. HDFC manager will charge his 1% commission and invest on your behalf and he will pocket this. Okay. And keep on saying SIP is the best. This is that stuff and you keep on doing like SIP and he'll give you a return at the end and show you that in what bus if you would have done FD, you would have make 5% with me, you made 10%. At least, buddy, I'll do it for you. Right. So now DII also make money if the market is going up. Correct. Because they are collecting their expense regime. Okay. Now, what is the benefit for FII? Well, they can take asymmetric risk. For example, whatever VC funds, private equity funds are there. What do they make by investing in companies like by Jews, investing in companies like CRED, investing in companies like X, Y, Z? They are able to invest in emerging markets. For example, Warren Buffett has no need to come and invest as money in India. But why will he invest in India? Because a part of his portfolio goes to emerging markets. From hedging, for example, a part of my portfolio right now goes to developed markets. Right. In next 10, 15 years, almost 70, 75% of my portfolio will be developed market. 20% will be emerging markets. Right. But for Warren Buffett right now, his emerging market portfolio will be 10%. But to attract that 10% amount from Warren Buffett, from RIDALO, bunch of different investors, Indian government tries really hard. Right. And why would these investors invest? Because they see that a Chinese market is thriving, I can make my money. Right. For example, if I want an exit, in the end, that's how they will give me exit. OK. I'll say, I'll take it. How do I say, I want my exit? OK. So I don't want to get stuck in my liquidity. OK. Everyone understands this complicated game. I have tried to simplify it. You will not find it in books unless you yourself like, you know, sort of go through this entire investing thing. Now, who loses? For example, if the stock market from a secular has a secular decline. Right. Secular decline, the meaning. Something like this. So for example, if you go and if you search. OK. So. So no. So this is an IKK index. I don't know. I don't know. I don't trade in like Japan market. So I'll just search. OK. So secular decline means something like this. OK. Right. So for example, this is a secular decline. OK. Now, if this situation happens, what happens to like governments money, will it make more money from the stock market or less money? Less money. What about DIs? They'll make less money because people will stop doing a site. These so DIs also make less money. FIs again will not invest because market is not giving returns. Why would they come to Indian market? They'll go to the next one market, whatever market. Detail also stops. So this entire cash flow or collection of taxes through stock market goes down. OK. Everyone understands, OK, which brings us to our next unrelated yet related question. Why do you think cryptos are de facto band in India? I don't know how many people know this answer. No government control. My government does not give a shit. OK. So as long as government makes its own taxes, they don't care. OK. They will let you trade in dream 11 and ruin your house and family life. OK. And let Rohe Sharma, where art fully advertise the hill out of it. OK. So they don't care about you. OK. So they will sell alcohol if they have to. They're as long as they are getting taxes. The problem is that they don't allow you to buy cryptos because they don't know how to manage taxes on it. How exactly? OK. So for example, if you go to the palika market, right in Delhi, and if you just do a P2P transaction on cryptos, essentially what you have to do is that you have to do a UPI payment to let's say, Yogesh, OK, because I cannot use my example. If someone from ED is watching it, they'll come after Yogesh. OK. Just kidding. OK. So basically, you will transfer like $10,000. So Bharati tells like, you know, send like $10,000 to peace to Yogesh, right? And Yogesh transfers him a bit coin, a fraction of a bit coin. And income tax notice comes to Bharati. Says he, OK, why did you like, you know, pay Yogesh $10,000 to peace? So he gave me consultation. OK. But there is a transfer of asset between Yogesh and Bharati into his hardware wallet. OK. And there is no way the government can track it. Right. It's there for crypto is a bit coin is a private money. OK. And because it's private money and if it adoption picks up, government makes zero tax on it technically. OK. And this is a problem. OK. It's has got nothing to do with more of this terrorist currency. So right. So all that is nonsense. OK. If they were so like, you know, morally pious, right? They would have banned dream 11 to begin with. Like it, but since this is not banned. So like, just leave that debate. OK. Can be used for illegal activities. OK. So great. So cryptocurrency started getting adoption in 2015, 2016. Have you heard of Kharsha Dmata? Have you heard of Dau Debraham? Have you heard of like, you know, Al-Kaeda? Right. Where do you think that those terrorist organizations are wiped? This is why one like, you know, Bitcoin money right now. Right. So the point that is useless debate. OK. So what I'm trying to tell you, the message that I'm trying to give you is that see if the government has a very clear system of taxing on something. They will allow that asset class to survive. If they don't have a very clear system of controlling taxes on it, they will not do it. OK. So why do you think that the US government is allowing like BTC ETF and something like coin this because it improves the ease of buying, right? Their government is somewhat sensible. They know that if you ban things and illegal market comes up where you will lose all your tax revenues, right? For example, exactly same thing can happen in the US also. If people, if you want to buy Bitcoin, you can buy Bitcoin. OK. And any place. That's not a problem. OK. For example, for example, DPSR people right out of the students, drugs are illegal in India. But class 12 students can buy drugs right through their punwadi, right or whatever. And if you don't trust me, go and meet like DPSR people from students. So you'll see that. OK. So yeah, Gujarat alcohol, right? So the point is that this is common sense that if you ban something, underground market develops and people still buy it. US understands it. And therefore what they have done it, that's easy. People are going to buy it anyways. OK. But at least this way, right? When we are making ease of operation, transparent, you can buy coin based through the way you buy stocks, you buy crypto. We don't mind. OK. There is like a black rock developed ETF by that. OK. What they are doing is that at least they are getting some taxes out of it. OK. It's not 100% right? I hope that this point is clear. India is operating right now from a slightly more closed mindset on it. Right. Now, how does this relate to the stock market? Now what happens is that now you need to ask a question. That's the if the government, the only thing that the government cares about it taxes, then why would they let the stock market survive? Because government collects crazy amount of taxes from stock market. OK. Now why? Because when is tax collected? When there is transaction. OK. If you for example buy a real estate land. Right. Let's say in 2025. You pay your 9% stand duty. And you hold it till 2100. And the property taxes zero. Right. So how much 75 years? Tax did the government make from you? Very less nothing. OK. But how many people you know who will hold a stock for 75 years? Very few. OK. No one. What will you say? Now you decide to do it. 20 years later, I mean to increase the transaction volume, they will say, yes, SWB can not do it. They will go to the ad. Right. And whatever. So then SWB can not. SWB can not. Very important. This is that stuff. Point being that government will only make money when you transact. OK. So for example, if you do futures and options, you are paying crazy amount of money. If you trade, you are paying even more money because you are then paying 20% STCG. If you book profits, you are paying capital gains tax. Now every day, price is being highlighted in front of you in the stock market. So the transaction volume on stocks is massive. OK. And the transaction volume on real estate is very less. Now recently, a law came into effect right on real estate that there used to be indexation benefits on real estate, which is being taken away. Right. And why do you think that that is the case? That what was the meaning of indexation? That if you buy a land at, let's say, 1 crore in 2025, and you hold it until 20, 2100. So in 75 years, there is also inflation. OK. So whatever the value of the land, let's say from 1 crore, it goes to 1,000 crore. At least 650 crores of that is through inflation itself. So you will get that offset. OK. So that was the meaning of indexation. What has the Indian government done? They have taken this benefit of it. And what have they announced? That's see, we are doing fair taxation. So put same, same equity real estate all has to be done on the same podium, 12 and a half. So we are doing you a favor. OK. Why was this done to increase the transaction volume on real estate? Because if I just buy real estate, P9% stand duty, hold it for 75 years. Government has lost money on that asset in a way. But if I sell it every five years, if I sell it to you, you sell it to third person, third person, third person, third to fourth person, then instead of 9%, government is making how much? 36% on four transactions. Are you getting? OK. And therefore, right now, I'm not saying that stocks will forever be great, but at least for the next three to five years, that's my only window. My viewpoint should change after five years also as I evolve. But in the next five years, the likely scenario is that all the asset class will become like investible. It's not as if that government wants like has some special affinity to stock markets. It's just that transacting volume on stock market is huge. And government made crazy taxation money from them. So therefore, they allow it to survive. And they want it to survive and thrive. And therefore, if and to answer the question, and let me talk about money making equation here also. So for example, yeah. So for example, if you're buying this dip, you can pretty much be sure that this 11%, so I'll be the 11% gear right? And basically, if it goes up to its previous high, right? How much returns will you make? You will make 13% returns from tomorrow. OK, so this 13% return is free money lying on the table as long as you have three years holding period. Why? Because there is no chance or there is a very less probability like less than like 5% that there will be a secular decline on India's stock market. OK. And if you have that confidence, this level of confidence, which I gave you in the last 20 minutes, what should you do tomorrow? Like be 100% invested like on 1995% invested right now 10, 15% alpha is good. No problem. And as long as you can go through little bit of pain, you'll be fine. OK. So the only thing that we worry about is volatility. And if you understand why volatility is happening, why it will be solved. There are counter buyers. After the 10 crore like you'll get right for FI idea is there like you know, 10,000, 20,000, 30,000 crore. So for them, keeping the stock market alive is a much bigger headache, right? I would say that tomorrow, right? I mean, if you're just buying nifty, 50, right? And you can buy an asset called as nifty bees and I have to buy BWS. OK. That's an asset that you can buy. Right. You should at least be like 70% invested in the stock market right now because you're getting it at a fair valuation. OK. How fair valuation? Because if you check the last five years, the total return as of today is around 93%, which gives it a CAGR of roughly 14%, 13%, which is honestly not that high. Right. So I mean, it's OK. I mean, it's a little bit maybe you can say like you know, a little bit slightly overvalued. So at the best, so just simply keep like a 20% cash hedge if you want to rest of the money should be in. OK. But having said this, the important notice that please don't track this money for the next three years. You track it only you open a specific account and call it like whatever, actions, class account or whatever, right? Just put it and check it after three years. OK. That's all you need to do. OK. And if I make an announcement from my side, see now what will happen is that you might the stock market can go sideways. OK. And they're also I'm giving. And they're also I'm giving you like a very specific way of making money. Right. So what is the way of making money in a sideways market? See, what is the worst case scenario that will happen? The worst case scenario is this. OK. So for example, let's consider this range. OK. So if you fall like this and it will go up like this, it will fall like this, it will go up like this. This is the worst case scenario or worst possibility that would happen. So if you can downward average more at these intervals and you exit it here, honestly, you have made good money in this timeframe. So this is what we are. I'm OK. You can easily make money in our the the toughest market to invest is our icing market. That's a worst time to buy. So for the last two years, I've struggled to buy anything right. Why? I said, right, even now, you, I want to invest $1 million. I have the money. I can do it. But the point is that it's not getting discounted that much. OK. So your point of entry as I was explaining you yesterday is critical. And you can only maintain a high network on stock investing and create substantial difference to your network. If you understand these three, four key concepts that I taught you today, which brings me to the final concept that I wanted to teach. And then we will in the evening, we'll discuss more about fundamentals. See, this brings us to the concept of network and let me give you two options. OK. Let's say that your total network is one. Now what one how one could write. So for example, you might own a house of 50,000 you own like some mutual funds. You have a job on going. You have some family wealth, etc, etc. Right. Things are going to pass you a house, right. Off 50 lakhs. Then sub add, correct one crore. OK. So even parents wealth, you can include in this. Now, of course, if your parents don't like you, that's a separate thing that they will do. They will not give you like, you know, their house or and give it to your sister or whatever. Right. So that's a separate thing. Then you can delete that wealth. Right. But anyways, this is how you'll reach your net worth computation. Understood. How broad? OK. Now, let me give you two options. OK. One is that let's see. So that's a very clear viewpoint that and you are getting like, let's say 10 lakhs. Okay. That's what you want. OK. Now, if you now you have two options, one is that an amateur investor, what they will do is that they will invest one like now because 10 lakhs of them, so the only thing and all that stuff. And they grow it at like 20%. So what is the final corpus 1.2 lakhs? How much did you add to your net worth 1.2%? OK. And here you're growing at 20%. OK. And investor might invest all right and grow it at 12%. So this becomes 12 lakhs. Here how much net worth you have added? You have added 12% to your net worth here. Here you have added 1.2% of your net worth. What is the primary difference? The primary difference is the investment capital. OK. So your net worth, which is ultimately the goal of investing, the ultimate goal of investing is to increase your net worth. It comes from what? It comes from investing high ticket amounts on sensible assets where you can make stable returns over a long period in time. Have you ever even understand? Right now how you can apply this knowledge? Very simple. So nifty right now is available at an 11% discount. OK. Let's say that you have 10 lakhs. You put all that 10 lakhs here. OK. Now this is 11% discounted. OK. Now over the next three years, right? It will dance like this and all that stuff. At least mutual fund guys will have to give you 9 to 10%. So nifty will be 9 to 10% banega. OK. So which means what? That we will see over the next three years, 30% rise from the base price. OK. From this high, there will be 30%. OK. Add another 12% right from here to here, right? Because the fall was 11%. But the rise will be 12%. OK. So how much return will you make? So you will make 42% overall return on this capital. OK. So this becomes how much? Right. Whatever that. And how much is the percentage addition to your network? So this becomes 14 lakhs, right? So the total network addition becomes 14%. So this is the math that you need to understand broadly speaking. Everyone understanding my viewpoint. It's all about net worth compounding. It's not about at what? Growth rate your portfolio is growing. But how big part of your portfolio is growing at what? Growth rate. OK. Everyone understands. OK. All right. So I'm just saying this was a different perspective to investing that you got. And getting an opportunity to invest in bulk, right? Whenever the opportunity comes, it's the fastest way of growing your network. If you see a parabolic drop, great time to increase your network. OK. If you see a 10% 15% drop, great time to at least be invested substantially. OK. If you see opportunity to capital rotate, do it. OK. All these things is what will add to your network. Can you also shed some light on how ask and bid work? It does not matter, man. I mean, for example, if you're buying like a GFC bank, and if you want to select tomorrow, it will get sold. So that's not a problem. OK. See, that's a very good question that should we start buying when DII is by? OK. So for example, if you study this on perplexity, for example, how much cash is mutual funds in India holding? OK. Now this will tell you. OK. Guys, NSE share is good. I will write a note. I will be buying, right? And again, I'll give you like a link to use for incorrect. Please buy a buyer that you will get at discount because you guys are my stock market student. So and I am an angel investor. So I negotiate like special deals with them. Otherwise, you will end up buying like a slightly higher price. OK. So see, the cash allocation has a percentage. Major mutual fund house like this is this on percentage. And you will tell me, right? Yeah, holding right now. OK. OK. So cash allocations rising from 4.8 to 5.76. OK. I see, I see it. I can't cash in all that stuff. See, the problem that happens is that for example, if they are holding, let's say, 5% 6% of their portfolio in cash. OK. And if this EMC decides to buy tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. OK, stocks. They will pour this entire liquidity into the market. 5,000 crore or whatever. OK. Stocks will go up. You will get the news at 2 p.m. And now you'll have to buy here. Now, do you see the problem in following what DIIs are doing? And you add after what DIIs have done or FIIs have done? This is the problem. OK. So this is called as market efficient market hypothesis. Eugene Farma was an economist who gave this concept that the moment a news comes out, it gets absorbed into the markets and more specifically into the stock prices. OK. So you will not make money by copying DIIs. You will make money by understanding that FIIs will have to invest this money at some stage. And you invest sooner than them and benefit with them. You're getting what I'm trying to say. OK. So you don't react on news, right? You basically try to figure out, OK, this is what is likely to happen in the next 3 to 4 months. OK. Or this is likely to happen in the next 3 years because next 3 years are very easy to think. What will definitely happen in the next 3 years? The markets are going to give make a newer high. OK. What is the current high on the markets? The current high on the market is this much. OK. This is the high that has been made 26,000. We are here. So how much returns we are definitely going to make? Well, 1.5%, 13%. Right. So this is definite, which is what you should do. On an average market gives how much returns 12% top 12, even with Mano, at least to keep the stock market alive, where retail investors are not going away from the stock market by closing their SITs forever. Let's say that we are able to pocket this alpha of 12.5%. OK. This is one. Second, we are taking a 3 year view point on an average market gross 12.5%. OK. But I was, but we are assuming let's say 10. So Maria Gravelna should be correct. So 30% from the peak, it should be. So you eat this. So you add this 30 plus 12.5. So this makes 43. And you divide it by 3. Right. So how much do you get? You at least get like 14% no. Correct. With me everyone. OK. The only challenge would be that you know what? It will fall like this more and it will rise by like. It will fall more. It might like it might rise like this. OK. On top of this, this 14% is assuming that you buy and hold. But no one is stopping you from number one downward averaging because you might get new money here. Right. And rotating capital. So you can rotate the capital even twice. So your returns can become more. OK. And that is the benefit of being a small retail investor. Everyone is understanding all these math. Right. How roughly I'm doing it. OK. OK. So this is it. So I hope you enjoy the class. Right. What I'll do is and I'll take some questions and in the evening time. So this is how stock market is typically operated. OK. So it's artificial. Right. It has to be kept alive. There is no other option. That's the biggest advantage. You know, we have that because we know that a secular decline is not going to come. We can always take advantage of these 10, 15% false. OK. How do you manage tax while rotating? See, it do be tax. I was up to the end here. I mean, for example, Indian government announced that we are going to suck your blood by charging you 50% times. You have to pay it. There is nothing that we can do. Right. So that is separate. Right. Everyone is paying tax. Is it true that if I aren't making enough alpha, that's why they are selling consistently? No. See, again, this is like a very wrong perception on things. OK. What I mean by this is that for example, Warren Buffett portfolio is $600 billion. How much do you think he's investing in India? Maybe like 10% of that. So it doesn't matter to him. He's anyways going to take like emerging market exposure. And within that exposure also is going to diversify. Right. So yeah, so to cut the long story short, our markets are very small. Right. And even if FIs across the world, for example, in China, Singapore, US, Europe, because their economies are so big, even if they have like 10% exposure outside their home countries and give 5% or 3% to India, that itself makes a very high percentage of our market as FIs money. OK. So only at a diversification plate. It's like me buying like real estate in Dubai, one real estate. OK. Majority of my real estate, holding it in Goa. I'm just buying it for diversification. So that's how I would put it. OK. So yeah. What price did you buy? HDP and I don't recall now. Good grief. I bought it like last year. I'll double check it. Let you know. It's QQQ. No. Yesterday I spoke about it. So today evening, I'll explain more. Index funds or ETF, which is seen. Now guys, I mean, don't micro manage things. Right. For example, many people get stuck. Yeah, okay. Nifty 50. Kareena should be by like mutual funder outside or ETF routes. By anything that you like. It doesn't matter. The end goal is to buy Nifty 50. Right. China market will it still keep on rising due to China's giving it looks like it. Right. So I mean, I had already invested in China and increased my portfolio exposure to somewhere around like 6% on China. Right. So my plan is to do 10. So let's see. US market. We have a specific class. So we'll do that. What is shorting the market? Shorting the market is that when you feel that the markets are going to fall. So then that's when you shot. Is it sensible for Indians to do it? No. Okay. Two reasons. One is that our short term capital gains is 20%. So it makes shorting strategy useless in India because you're being just too high attacks. Okay. Second is that majority of the times the markets are either in an upward momentum or sideways. So you're going to lose money. Right. So I would not recommend that you learn shorting the market in a market like India and also we don't have structured. ETFs through which you can short the market. Okay. So for example, in the US, if you want to short the US market, you can buy something called as inverse QQ, right. Now that allows you to short the market. But in India, you don't have such a product. Right. So it's complicated to short the Indian market. Okay. Why do you not start investing? Most of your money in either US or UA stocks and very less new money in Indian stock, tax benefit. Yes. That's precisely what I'm doing. I'm investing most of my new money in US stocks. Okay. And UA. Right. Right. So I have like tax advantage. Right. So like that's what I would recommend to NRIs also. Right. And. But I still need to have like an emerging market exposure. So for me, that's India because I understand the market really well. Right. So I have experience of investing in this market. India for my emerging markets. Right. Tax loss harvesting. I'll write a short note. Okay. See, it's not like swing trade up. Neeker. Right. The point is that for example, I'm a very clear exit plan for nifty. Right. For example, whatever bulk I have done, right. I mean, in fact, I bought it even cheaper. Right. I bought it here. Right. The market. Right. And. This is like a very clear exit point. Now, I don't know if this exit point will be attained. For example, this exit point. It might happen here. It might happen here. It might happen here. It might happen here. Now, whenever it happens, I'm going to exit some of my this trade that I've taken. Okay. So this is this for me swing trade. It that's how I define swing trade. Okay. I've invested 30 lakhs since last time I'm standing at a two percent. Should I sell everything and start if I see this is pointless. Right. How much profit or loss you're having right now. Okay. Investing is an everyday affair. Right. So for example, today market is available 10 11% cheap. Does it make sense to put your new money into the market right now? Whatever has happened in the history is useless. Right. For example, I was the 10th one when I was 99% marks. I think now you're 35 years old. Why are you talking about your 10th word exam? It doesn't make sense. Okay. So like life has changed. Right. So similarly, whatever investment you have done in the past, it's done. Right. So let's leave it. Right. So start afresh. Good website. It's evening. I'll show you. Okay. So you should look at P. You should not look at P. Okay. So you should ignore P. Okay. Important important thing to notice P. E ratio. You should not even look at price. Okay. Waiting for swing trading. Yes. I'll I'll do it. Okay. So yeah. Okay. So I'll do it. Okay. So I'll do it. Okay. Okay. So I'll do it. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So yeah. Indian market got out of. I don't know. Like so. It's very hard to say. Right. For example, let's say tomorrow Indian government comes and announces that we are cutting interest rate. Then the market will run like anything. Okay. Unexpectedly. And tomorrow if Indian government says that you know what? What? What? What? You know, when you talk about right pay 30 percent LTCG. What do you think is going to happen? Right. So then suddenly the market will crash. So it's beyond me. Right. So it will not. This is not something that we can prepare for. Right. So therefore prognosis is useless. Right. You look at data. For example, today you are getting something cheap. What strategy you can build to invest. Sensibly you build that. You execute it and you move on. Right. And you will consistently as a money as a system will make money. Right. So that's what we are interested in. Unlisted stocks. I will speak separately. Right. I will do that. Trending. You should we go for paid. No. Use free. No. I'm using it. I'm using it. I'm using it. I'm using it. I'm using it. I'm using it. I'm using it. I'm using it for free. Okay. Say. Who buys when both FI and DIs. That's the point. Retail people do not have that kind of money. Right. So therefore when FI sell, DIs have to buy as compulsion. Okay. But an interesting question is that how do DIs get money to buy? Right. From you. Okay. So ultimately it's retail who is buying. Right. So at the end of the day. DIs are nothing but a collection of retail money. Right. Investment idea. I'll do an unlisted class. Right. This kind of retrouve. This kind ofnaire system and defense. Because it is the same. That's the same. Three years for deputy to recover. Boozed that mean four five annual returns. But you're buying the market cheat too. And from the top it should give returns. Because you'll always outs felt like returns off. And there for us is you mean 90% right? So they're also conservatively you are making like 12, 13% which is the average. you are 그다음에 that is one state or senior. So which is okay. So, which makes the market in Vestable. right when to exit from a trade this I'll explain right appreciate one good treat okay what is AI scenario and investment that technology has evolved with data churning what's happening see commercial applications will be made there are certain proven commercial applications that will come for example autonomous cars will come there will be a lot of gene editing for example CRISPR technology that is going to pick up it is going to get commercialized over time these are high-ticket items to consider right semi conductor it will definitely evolve like I mean get better with time right because you require more computational power nuclear energy is again a very good 10 year 15 year theme but I don't do like that type of investing where I'm thinking 15 years just tell me like whatever is good in the next 3 to 5 years I'll rather focus my attention there AI I don't see any value in India right now because we are not going to lead the race in commercial application of AI as of now okay you know it's a evolving field even I don't know everything so but you know right now the opportunities are there in US and not in India okay I'll try to do that okay how to decide what percentage to sell once you target we have a separate selling class do you use PB for understanding entry level not really right PB only works for companies that are where the book value makes sense for example ports okay technically their book value kind of makes sense right because that's an asset it's a very high capital intensive asset okay business right and public sector companies with the brand values not that great right but honestly PB is a very old ratio it does not make sense okay so same with peg it's not required just understand P learn how to use P really well and you will be mostly good to go UAE stocks are not covered on this course course right I mean this course is already like you know very extensive on Indian stocks but maybe I'll make like some public video or something right you always mentioned buying Nifty and you elaborate different between Nifty Nifty same thing right so Nifty B's is an ETF Nifty 50 is the instrument team so it's one and the same thing yeah how can big mutual fund guys are very foolish because no one knows anything it's or a Mukherjee can destroy wealth in a bull market then I don't know what mutual fund or like you know money managers know I'm just being blunt with you right so a lot of people got pissed that I made a video on him and all that stuff right they talk of homes that's all I can say that's like you don't need to do any complex kind of strategies to make money in the stock market and retail investors should learn how to manage their own money I've been very vocal about this right because it gives you more control it allows you to rotate capital if nothing else right for example right now opportunity is there to buy it and 15% cheat why not buy it kind of this common sense few companies median P is always so high so see when company is you know is expected to post good growth rate consistently or if it's a monopoly company so to say its median P will be high okay are real estate mutual funds and real rates good for investment not at all yeah so I'll not touch rates okay entry exit example like HL today down can we add in cell later short term see like I mean you trade on good stocks you don't trade on bad stocks for a classic case studies HDFC bank for example I started buying HDFC bank two to a half three years ago I've not made any much money but honestly market went down 20% and HDFC in that phase run up by 20% so the alpha on HDFC bank was 20 40% in a way because it beat the market by 20% now if you look at it in an absolute tells you say here HDFC will go you wrote the new re but the point is that a portfolio what saved because of HDFC bank otherwise people are crying that they have like you know sort of lost 30% 40% of your portfolio and that allows you to survive in the market now if you survive the market for like a substantial period then automatically you will make money right so HL according to me is a bad stock known so therefore I don't touch it can people make 10x 20x maybe but I don't know a system to invest in it so I'll not touch it right there is no tax if you have booked profits and you can offset it entirely by doing tax laws harvesting right but government will not pay you for losses right they'll not refund your tax like and you'll have to adjust it in the next phase okay how can we transfer BTC to wallet right so there are tutorials on YouTube if you search you'll get okay can we ignore cash flow of assets real study job income for short term yes you can ignore okay why you are on the fence for data center themes I don't know enough about data centers like so I don't know like I'm saying real estate is a very complicated game in India right now data centers are of multiple types right thing that you need to run data centers is real estate right and real estate is expensive so it's like owning like a manufacturing unit so that's how I'll put it right how do we get absolute fee of a company so it's there no so like on a screener I showed you right so whatever the current trading fees and the dotted line right Kiran which which country you are in NRI in are you in so it also depends for example I'm a NRI but my tax residency is in UAE so therefore I pay zero tax if you are in UK US so for example you are in US so of course you'll have to pay tax right so why because these are high tax economies right so UAE is a high expense economy right so if you have the option right off taking a tax residency or if you're structuring a tax residency sensibly as a high-knit worth individual then it kind of makes sense to go to low tax economies right for example Singapore and UAE according to me are best countries to move to right from our tax residency perspective if you want to enjoy a quality of life go to Europe right because social structure is very strong all that stuff but you have to pay high tax right same applies to US that it's a high tax economy there is no difference between Indian taxation and US taxation okay yeah during parabolic who buys when both sells it says that trading volume goes down right so I mean no one is buying it right and because no one is buying it people keep on lowering the price at which see everything gets sold okay it's like you trying to sell a house if the fair value of your house is too crore but if it is a covid like situation and you need money emergency now in covid you can't even get like viewers for your house people are not going to come to your house and take a look you will try to remotely sell it now it's a guy I'm not like this in the room right so I'll only pay 50 lakhs and I'll know and I'm not right so what is happening is a distress sale okay so parabolic may be that there is distress sale of assets which is happening because no one is because everyone is selling and no one is buying right but you get a buyers at distress so when the price falls enough there will be buyers for example retail some H&I all that some new FIIs come some new DIA is come thereby right so all that's how do you know that top has come I don't know like so I mean top has come you can clearly see the top right so for example here you can clearly see the top this is the top right I mean this is what the thing is right so here you can see the top right this is top this was a market top this was a market top here it's important to be hedged right this is a market top right so all these are tops right at the top you should at least have like 20% margins okay so you should always your portfolio should always have the ability to 120% for me okay why do hold shop protesting with this I have answered semiconductor index I'm buying guys but the only issue that I see in the US market is that the valuation is still very very high right on things so ideally you should go in sideways correction right which means that you have to invest slowly and build your portfolio over the next one to two years that's what I'm my current hypothesis is now if tomorrow market corrects by like another 20% the weight happened in 2021 that entire NASDAQ corrected by 30% now that's a bulk by opportunity right I mean not crazy levels right they begin a more sensible question here would be that you what okay so a more sensible question here would be that if you invest 70% tomorrow and if a 20% correction happens on the market what will you do now you'll say that okay I have 30 more percent of money which I can deploy then great do it right but if it should not happen that you invest 70% tomorrow and the market corrects by another 20% and you don't have any money right so that should not yeah value investing is now restricted there is honestly like value investing growth investing momentum in the sub-bicarbonate right the simple point is buy good asset at reasonable enough price right by doing moda moda map right that's what I'm trying to teach you okay your views on space industry it is not commercial yet so when it gets commercialized that's when it becomes palatable for retail investors how do I Bitcoin and India well polygo vazar because you can buy there okay codec is very high in price but if I look at the current p2 it's discounted can I enter yes because price does not matter price to it price to earning matters right it's again saying like you know my salary is like 50 grotes now yes it's 50 grotes but in what context of the skill and the value that you're adding to your company so that's a better question to ask no that okay I'm adding like 100 grotes of value to my company therefore I'm commanding a salary of 50 grotes then it's lying right but if you just look at the absolute number 50 grotes you'll feel that you know it's like very high right sorry minimum amount of money to move to Dubai or any part of UA after 10 years relying only on world stock market for living okay that's interesting because that is precisely what I'm also doing okay so for example like if you have to live off and let's say good life in Dubai I would say that you're like good life I would say is like if you are willing to live in charge in a slash a jiman then I think you can live a very good life very big apartment all that stuff in 50 60 lakhs a year okay so that's the corpus that you need 50 60 lakhs a year where you don't have to think like you know before doing like some activity and all that right I mean you know you can go out eat well travel whenever you feel like take taxis whatever and you don't have to look at prices before buying stuff so if you can survive one of 50 CR or sorry 50 lakh a year kind of an expense you've been designed life right now okay so to make 50 lakhs or withdraw 50 lakhs then again run the math that how big your portfolio should be right so withdrawable amount should be like in context of that right so then it depends on what is the portfolio size so let's assume like 10 cross okay so if the portfolio size is 10 cross and you're not going to work right then can you grow that portfolio at let's say 6% in UA so the answer is yes you can do it okay that's not a problem 2% is the inflation in UA right so that gives you 4% spending power so which is 40 lakhs on a 10 crore portfolio so if you have 10 crores and if you want to live off of investment income with no new income coming in then I think with 10 12 crores we can plan at a time okay why do prominent mutual funds okay this I've answered video please explain how and when to diversify but see I mean the mathematics changes right I mean if you're an earnings so you don't require like 10 crore corpus okay so but I feel that I mean if you know how to manage your money if you're not paying crazy taxes if you're living sensibly then 10 crore portfolio in UA you can plan a life right so the PESL explain more what might be the reason P.I doesn't have a P on screen because the earnings are negative right so price to earning means that earning should be positive earning means how much profits you're making so if it's a loss making company it will not have an E okay okay good good good yeah cash flow balance it I'll teach in the evening right H.U.L is a good stuff no problem right investment knowledge any source of information that you will take for flexibility because of a lot of flexibility is really good because I'm a fan big fan of for flexibility yes so it's wonderful just ask sensible questions you'll get a lot of knowledge okay nifty b's so it's called why are you not able to find nifty I'm not able to find can you guys name the stock b's as an it okay so you guys have answered it okay what is a good platform do any zero brokerage platform like up stocks grow zero the anything that you're comfortable with right three real estate companies Anandraj blackstone punch shield reality Rostam G is a good idea to explore see guys I mean now honestly I will not duplicate my bets for example if I am data center is pretty much like real estate bet right so now if I already own hard real estate which I control then I would not own companies in that space right now I am not into products for example I can I do not have like you know a brand like in the sense key up is a brand h.u.l. is a brand so I would rather own brands okay so like real estate is not like so and then what's the point of like you know doing like an indirect play with Anandraj and all that so that's the thing but tomorrow it should be uploaded as well both the recordings intrinsic value is a MBA world okay so for example if you speak with Migginsy consultant's boss has those there are partners at Pigginsy and whatnot they'll tell you like really nice shiny woods okay so intrinsic value is one such nice shiny wood okay so that's what it is okay there is no intrinsic value right and it's it's up for debate if you ask three people to give intrinsic value of a stock we will all tell you three different numbers nifty is bought on 12 13% but what if it takes more than three four years to reach the exit point then is it just approximately three percent nice so it will not happen like that right I mean for example it's not as if like for example let me just draw it out right so this is nifty okay it has fallen by like 11 12% now let's assume a consolidating market right so consolidation means that it consolidates in a particular range let's consider this to be the range it falls more and it goes back up it falls more it goes back up it falls more it goes back up so these are all your exit points now this exit point might happen in one year okay so for example here you lost for example you invested 10 lakhs it becomes 8 lakhs here okay or like what are the 7 lakhs here right but from here to here this 7 lakh became how much it becomes 14 lakhs right something like this right so or whatever right so here you can exit right and this exit point you're hitting after one year right or one and a half year it cannot happen like I mean what you are assuming is straight line right I hope I was able to explain this thank you Abhishek okay buying shares of BSE and SES that's interesting I'm studying it I'll release a note this week itself right defense I'm not bullish man actually what I get defense defense make you know like we are not exporting exporting right I mean we are just internally consuming so so there is like no competitive advantage here right I mean if you are exporting to like France exporting to like some other countries it would have kind of made sense but we are just domestically consuming Air Force order it's a deeply corrupt industry right I mean you require like contacts to sell so there is no way to analyze any company and if you buy a company based on the assumption gain political relationships are they will be able to sell more what if the government change what if you know some complicated guy creates problem for them so this becomes like a political stock so don't do it okay regular to direct you just sell your regular okay and move to direct okay so that's the simplest thing I can say okay for X trading is illegal in India so you can't do it okay can you apply what we learn on the US market yes you can HDFC noama stocks HDFC AMC I've sold noama I'm holding right are those still at buy levels you'll understand right you need to go through fundamental analysis class which I will do next so you'll understand more okay screener and all I'll teach you any correlation of moving index relevant as well in the parabolic change no so MSED RSI use Karna is not sensible for investors if you are a technical trader it kind of makes sense but do using like MSED is good from an investing point of view okay for trading point of view I'll not recommend right Kiran no problem I will sort this out for you right just drop me like a linden okay will you teach how to do business analysis of entire sector and how we can use it along the yes I'll do that China stock market see what how I see it is pointless okay so it's speculative it's breaking out right now right so I'm just putting a little bit of money and I'm done right but it's very hard to do prognosis on these things it really depends if China wants to focus on growing their stock market if they focus it will become like US stock market which is like an asymmetric bet right okay right is it worth moving to Dubai Europe when earning like 25 lakhs per annum in a metro like India but how much will you earn in Dubai that's a more sensible question to ask right then you can compare your life otherwise if you just say that 25 lakhs in metro I'm earning and you say that I can only like let's say 25,000 dirams monthly salary in Dubai now which is better then I can give you a comparison right what percentage of investable money do you suggest to invest in if t50 this is portfolio construction question so hopefully this will get cleared with time right so please go class by class okay so today we learned like how stock market operates evening session we learn how individual stocks operate and all that right so like have a little bit of patience right it will get cleared okay can you share that excel see I'll share that right I'll do this by like Monday Tuesday consolidation period has a rectangular formation this I'll teach yeah you were saying that 67% growth stocks that means they're meaning 30 no I'm not saying that 60 70% should be growth stocks that's my strategy okay you might very well be happy with 30% growth stocks okay you pick that's your call right it really boils down to the dipo person you are if you're hyper greedy you might want to have like 100% growth okay how do you con great that's all the wind right but that is your call okay thank you saiba saiba really appreciate when do you think oyo will IPO it will IPO very high probability right now when depends on what the market circumstances are right so we can't estimate it right because a lot depends on the market companies typically IPO when stock market starts running right because they know that they can get like higher valuation right if volumes for fundamentally how do you deal with it in any indicators like volume it's TV it fell 10% should I hold or sell anything HDB financial you should not sell it's a good company and because it's a HDFC bank company it will always trade at a premium all HDFC companies trade at a premium right so you should not do anything just stay put right and 10% fall is not that bigger deal because entire market itself has fallen by 15 20% small gaps are fallen by 25 30% right I will not recommend any stocks guys but I'll take enough examples and you will have enough idea to build your portfolio right at the end of the course coal India P right with an ROC of 63 okay it doesn't matter okay for example some stocks historically trade low right you have to understand what type of a stock it is so you'll get more clarity right I mean as we progress through the course insurance industry is a very good industry okay I'll start using some examples in the evening class right so that will give you more clarity insurance industry coal industry all that right okay Nasdaq Dima or buying via wasted is better if you're doing it via India then invested is good yeah worry renewable tech I don't buy complicated chess okay so is there a way to invest in US market for NRIs resident in Europe LTCG and paid access in India okay and how much tax are you paying in India 40% I don't like so like if you're a tax resident I don't know like Europe India rule right but I think you should be paying like LTCG as 12.5 you know I'll show if that's the case that even if you're booking profits in Europe through any app for example if you're using ETO row right to invest in the US markets you should be paying 12.5 not 40 but not short correct or that's correct that you should if you have one carotid to invest invest like 70 75 quickly right and then wait with 30% hedge okay bulk by versus maximum by but see the instrument in which you are investing is 50 50 you're not taking speculative gambals right like you know individual stocks okay how can I invest in Chinese market you can do it via wasted right hands-on business fine both are fine okay investing in commercial are you don't do it okay in India laws are very complicated it's very difficult to wicked a commercial real estate the only loss making real estate I own is a commercial real estate okay so out of like you know 10 11 properties that I would know right so the only loss making real estate is my commercial industry okay what are your thoughts on it and farmer it and bearish yeah farmer is good I don't know enough it's complicated for me to understand okay if I would rather buy like healthcare stocks because that's much better for me right I mean if you just simply buy max up all low Narayan hit it down there right all that stuff that's better okay video think we can make better returns angel investing unlisted versus IPOC if you're doing angel investing then you need to at least be like a 5CR person right and invest across like 5 7 startups because if you just invest in one lose that money then it's not worth it right and angel investing you have to lower the ticket size and invest across a broad range of companies okay thanks thanks Sabia yeah thank you HDB unless it no longer available is the opportunity lost I can they give options see what happens is the supply gets exhausted right on the primary market right so if they don't have the supply we can't list it on the platform right it's not like you know buying publicly listed stock publicly listed stock is available all that time but for unlisted stocks supply has to be created you have to find people who want to sell their stock okay so that supply is not infinite okay no no I'm not like you know I'm no interest in you know taking VC money it just points like my lifestyle I'm a very relaxed lifestyle I you know I don't want to like take anyone's money right so yeah appal basil yeah yeah good afternoon actually my question is why be to a financial why not price to book in earlier in one of your videos you have said about the price to book is much more important to value a financial firm no I did not say price to book I would have said price to book for public sector banks okay or public sector units PSUs right because typically public sector banks PSUs in the past they used to have brand bad brand image now there is no brand value P that gets added right so therefore price to book basically indicates the true value of the asset how accountants create book value so in price to book B means book value right book value means that okay if the firms asset for example Punjab national bank has 100 branches and they own all these 100 branches then you liquidate all the branches you liquidate all the computers sell off so this is the value of the firm that comes okay now in this there is no what do you call there is no factoring in of the brand Pnv okay so because in the past public sector units used to have typically a very bad image right PB ratio used to work really well for public sector enterprises but now what has happened is that if you actually go and because of the blank bank cleanup and all that what has started to happen is that the even the brand recaligation of public sector units is coming into foray okay now in these type of companies price to book ratio kind of made sense you can't do price to book ratio for a company like Apple where majority of the price of the stock is derived from the brand value okay because accountants do not price in or in the book value there is no brand value that is like you know sort of added okay so yeah that's what I would say I hope that explanation kind of made sense I'll try to explain more subsequently okay okay so the price to be cannot be seen for a financial firm only thing we have to take it in PSU sector some days right also price to book I ignore completely I don't look at price to book anymore because brand value is there for almost all the businesses now especially after like COVID world right price to book used to be a very old ratio they've just continued it it doesn't make sense anymore right so yeah that's how I put it okay thank you on what basis you have sold the HTFC AMC maybe some technical number change or it is run up to 100% age which I sold it after that I didn't know very recently only a sold it right so yeah is there any specific thing that on this basis only how sold like that I'm asking when I sold it I explained the entire arsenal of selling it now I don't remember it one that sell it I sell it I'm sure there's a post also like on that right so okay good thank you thank you basal you guys yeah uh action like I'm investing in mutual funds since 2014 okay so what do you consider like should I stop investing and start moving into stocks or nifty and like that what do you suggest my suggestion is useless okay so basically you should have confidence in whatever you're doing okay so what I would recommend is that you try out investing in direct stocks if that looks more valuable to you pull right make the moves slow right you don't need to cut all your mutual funds and directly jump into stocks okay maybe liquidate 10% of your mutual fund portfolio play around with 10% stocks directly see the results if you like it if you're improving as an investor then liquidate like 20% 30% eventually move completely out right so if that is working out if that is not working out then also it's fine right I mean at least you would know when to liquidate your mutual fund right for example by looking at the technicals you can proxy it and liquidate your mutual funds okay one more question like you said during the parabolic fall like both d i's and the appraisers selling but this information is available to us only after after a period of time right so the parabolic fall but the parabolic falls happen almost on the same day right okay so that information is easily available instantly it's not like I want to see it so for example if you put this on daily handle right I mean if you just go and put it like let's say weekly handle right you'll see the parabolic fall right so for example this is not a parabolic this is not a parabolic right you'll see this is a parabolic right so you are clearly seeing it that this is a parabolic fall it's like on 9th March you would have seen it okay so this is parabolic and it continued to fall more right till 30th March right so this March like February to March period two months this was a parabolic fall so this was a great buying opportunity you buy whatever you can at any point on this curve will you be able to time the water absolutely not okay but the objective of a parabolic fall is to buy okay the moment you see a parabolic fall and realize that hey parabolic fall is happening you start buying like crazy whatever you can okay and ask what I'm going to do then right I am going to leverage mortgage all my properties and buy even more okay so that's how leverage I want to be I have zero loans right now I'm just waiting for a parabolic fall okay thank you yeah your gauge yeah I have a question you talked about P now marrying P to the DM a TMS 50 or a Dm I 200 will you be covering that or do you have it Giri Shah yes hey hi Akshad thanks for the session very quickly so you know are you going to teach us how to develop like a system of looking at things so for example like off all these stocks how do you track the best ones best opportunity and when there is a parabolic fall you're kind of ready to take advantage and not you know scrambling to buy anything at that point in time is that something you'll cover the honestly to make money from the stock market you don't even need to buy one single stock okay you can just literally play around with index and make money if you know how to operate in that segment really right that's honest I'm I'm being honest because it allows you to rotate capital it allows you to do a bunch of different things etc etc the I what people expect me to teach is that hey tell us like how to find the best stocks you can't do it you have to be a mad person to like you know keep on scouting stocks all your life okay that's useless okay the idea is then okay some stock is in front of you it's grabbing your attention then are you able to analyze it well and figure out that whether it should be a part of your system or not right so that's it right so the idea is not like I mean see there are 6,000 plus stocks now how many stocks will you set an analyze right I mean you cannot analyze it maximum your universe of stocks will be like let's say 150 stocks right out of that you will keep on adding deleting there will be hundreds of stocks that you will miss which will rally so yeah and as long as your portfolio is giving like sensible bonds you should not start comparing you to HL Valenet or 200% in terms of your but R stock did move only like 20 the ideas that is your portfolio growing sensibly sustainable you're not so that's what I'm trying to teach I'm not trying to teach like you know that you go and figure out like you keep on hunting for like new stocks every day right so that's impossible that ruins your piece of mind right because then you will be stuck in front of your screens already right so just one quick follow question is there what you do also like you know you have like a favorite set of like or you know set of 10 150 stocks that kind of catch your attention and then you kind of of of course they cover like a diverse sectors and then you kind of play around in those is that is that correct so you you start from top down right so this is an analysis that I'll teach you in the evening class that you start a top down analysis first right so far I've taught you that you should trust the market right by parabolic fall that's easy way of making money right the second step is that now how do you analyze like specific opportunities top down bottom up so this is the analysis that I will start teaching top to down bottom to operate so from evening this over okay thanks so much Kanchan Shubham Shuka yeah yeah actually so actually I'm part of your community for last couple of years and of the practical problem that I'm facing is so since I became part of your community I sort of started my own investment journey so till then I only use to invest through mutual fund out but I am in a very demanding job and I could be honest you are a full time investor you can keep on analyzing different assets different instruments maybe two and through but being in demanding job I cannot do that so I cannot really track so many assets when they are going down when they are coming up and to exit so for example taking an example of HDFC MC right I invested in it but I did not take the exit so I'm still invested in it way so how really what is your practical advisor guidance for investors like course who cannot track the various instruments maybe regularly because they are in demanding jobs see maybe you missed that post right because I had I just lean by like sitting like HDFC MC as long as you are reading my posts they are on whatsapps last YouTube community we'll get all the information that that I'm doing in the Indian market okay so that's not so though don't miss the post that's the important point he's review it like once every day right and honestly like because we have a whatsapp community the chances of you missing is very low right so because you know I'm like kind of making it very active right so when as long as you have your phone it's not as if that you need to sit in front of your screen all day as long as you read like my one whatsapp message every day it's good to go okay now second part is that can I like do a live buy and sell portfolio thing for my India stock market I can't as per regulation okay I'd like to do like anything in India right now I'm doing exactly that for my US okay so for example I have told that he I'm building like one million dollar US equity portfolio 25% done here's buy and sell on device basis this is where my portfolio stands today this is where market stands today so that I can do in the US stock market not in the Indian stock market as per the law now you say that okay why don't you get regulated in the Indian stock market I'm already trying right Indian stock market is the most complicated stock market to get licenses in okay so it took me like 30 days to get a license in UA US everything and like I'm in India it's a nightmare to get a license right so therefore I can't do it otherwise I would love to create like a portfolio you can see whatever I'm buying selling on device basis create notifications all that so the best I can do is that around a YouTube community slash whatsapp and give you indications that's what I can do right so so I'm probably missing it but then I'm not part of what's up community so is that the community what is correct this is what this class okay I'm not posted anything yet because the life class is going I'll start posting on it from tomorrow okay sure well Shobham Shika hi hi Akshad so in continuation to the question that I asked in the chart so for NRI's Indian government is charging 12.5% LTCG for Indian stocks but if I have to buy US stocks so vested platform is reporting it to the Norway government so I end up paying 40% tax here though but where are you based out of Norway Norway so you're a tax resident of Norway therefore you're paying the US and tax in Norway 40% yeah so the thing what you should do is that you should link your vested account from India so the money transaction should happen from India so then you'll be taxed as per Indian laws you're getting so for example your mom is there right in India yeah whoever or relative right you ask them to open an account and trade via them okay okay yeah yeah okay perfect thanks Shikha Rahul yeah Shikha and then yeah yeah in continuation to the capital rotation thing that you speak how do you identify with sectors the money will come and the volumes will come and see all I can say is that which sectors undervalued right now for example private lines are still undervalued right so I would buy more on max on it right and whenever it goes up it hits the resistance point and sell some of it right then there are sectors which I'm not confident of for example IT now because the long term growth prospects I don't know what's going to happen right so I'm like a little bit ify right now like so I'm not buying too much of it at least leave room for downward averaging some sectors for example consumption auto stocks now those are heavily discounted so consumption story is going to pick up in India right I mean because tax rebates have been given interested cuts will happen so home loan EMI is going to pick up so something like Awa's finances is one of my stocks or something like dream folks and all right I mean always will benefit so it really is like sector wise thing I can't predict where money is going to come next all I can see right now is that what seems undervalued and where the money you know which industries might benefit six months from now so that's the estimation we can run okay and my second question is I'm based out of India I follow I'm a part of a YouTube community also I follow your moves there for my portfolio do you have some some YouTube community for I haven't started building the US market right now but I would be interested so do you have something like that so yeah correct so I use to US yes you can join anyone can join that I'm legally okay like you know sort of revealing my portfolio to Indians in the US market so that is a complete portfolio you can see right from day one right whatever I'm like okay so this drop a note will I do you can share yeah I just want to ask like looking at like 12 years 12 13 years of active job is it like still to go and invest in US market or like maybe even like China market I could not get the question police are you mean to say that you invest for 12 13 years yeah I mean I would be like into active job for the next maybe 13 years or 12 years so from that one of you whether it is still good to go and invest in US market or other international markets yes yes so I mean see it's a diversification play right so I mean you cannot have like 100% exposure to India because the world is becoming multi-polar so previously it used to be a US driven world now it's a multi-polar world Russia is one percent China is another India is another US is another so you have to have exposure across all these markets one could argue right so that's how I'm thinking right so yeah I mean it's probably liquidation point of view or like anytime liquidating the assets is it liquidating as long as you're doing it within the law there is no problem right so for example even if you buy equities in US it's a it's very well regulated and all right so it's not niche okay okay just have to take a look at the taxation how it works and CA is a better version to help you out right I'm not a CA right so just work with your CA explain your entire case and you'll be in a better position right so Bharti so on yeah hey actually can you hear me I can yeah great session so far Raksha thank you so quick question so peace normally are over valued so is it possible that they increase the overall industry P and it's a chance for the other industries to also get a little more valued no so what happens is that sentiments flow in certain industries at certain time for example right now the sentiments are very positive on sewing conductor artificial intelligence machine learning so it is possibly getting the highest ever paid it will get why because the growth rate seems sensible in that industry would something like commodities get like very high P ever no because it's commodity at the end of the day there is just too much competition for steel copper and all that anyone can produce it it's not doesn't require special skills but can everyone produce any conductors the answer is no so there is a company called as ASMR right which gives like a kind of prefabs to Nvidia and all right so now it's some monopoly stock right lithographic thingy it gives right so now that's very hard to produce so something which is hard to produce or an industry which is very difficult to industry which is valuable and where the growth rate will be high will generally come on higher P now some industries go in a D growth for example the classic case study would be public sector minds in 90s right so for example when private sector minds started coming in India offered better customer relationship better services all that stuff and they took business away from public sector minds so the P of public sector banks as an industry shrunk and the P of private sector minds expanded so that was a transition point now some similar stuff might happen on IT industry that last 8 10 years have been very good for IT industry going forward we don't know whether the IT industry will detail its growth rate or not so there is a chance of P shrinkage in that industry right so yeah you have to think about it this way that wherever growth is giving high P to those industries kind of makes sense wherever the growth is not there or growth will go away the P can also shrink for those industries thanks Abhishek, how are you all good now? I'm good too so my question was I'm like 23 and I'm doing some tech job so the pace really good let's say they're being made I can save two legs per month right now and I'm investing most of the money in stock market so the money hits my account and I tend to invest a lot of money quickly in the let's say first two weeks of the month like what would you suggest how should I go with this? I tend to not hold on to the money it's like if money's in my account I'll just invest it in the best practices the idea is that you buy something at sensible price a good asset yes so just don't invest for the sake of investing unnecessarily right that every month I'm an investor right it's not like that for example it's like eat when you feel hungry but in India we have made a system that you need to have breakfast dinner and lunch now studies are telling us that it's not required right if you eat less it's actually good for your body right every health indicator tells you that right so what is the best way of doing it so it's called apple test now apple test simply means that you should only eat food when you feel like eating an apple okay and if you can eat an apple and you become so hungry that you can eat an apple then only eat right so because otherwise the only thing that I can earn in that right and similarly there is no like grace going on that you have to invest so whenever you find opportunities you invest till that I'm you're not finding opportunities save it for two three months right and then see right sir but right now what I'm seeing is there are a lot of opportunities in the market so I tend to be like overly jealous into things I should get this also this also this also go to your I see it's an opportunity go through the course you'll be able to make better judgments right so that's the idea behind the post right so just let it complete you'll have a better idea and also my current portfolio was I have been working in a job for one year it's like eight alpio so it will it's gonna grow this year I'm planning to invest around 16 to 20 legs on top of that money so any good practices you would uh because you're already just just be patient listen to the entire course you yourself will get an idea so watch this course twice right and you'll have that would have clarified majority of your doubts okay thank you uh on get yes hi hi hi check there was a mention in the previous classes that if you have a certain corpus in ua stock so that actually helps you to like I don't know become a UA text resident or maybe you can transfer your corpus to UA what was I'm just trying to understand that part also since yes so basically what happens is that if for example you are buying as an Indian tax resident you're living in India you're buying US stocks right and if you book profits on that portfolio you'll have to pay 12.5 percent tax why because you're an Indian tax resident okay but you pay that LTCG only when you book profits on US stocks now let's say that you have started investing in US stocks now okay you continue to invest the portfolio keeps going up so from let's say 50 lakhs and go to five per cent right now you're sitting on four and a half a year profit now it might make sense for you and if you're out of job or like you know if you have the option to migrate to UAE and become a tax resident there you become a tax resident there and now because you're a UA tax resident booking profits on UA booking profits on US stocks the LTCG as per today's role is zero so you pay zero stuff so that's what I was trying to tell okay yeah all right there yeah hey uh actually so I wanted to understand as you just now said that you know being in India if you want to book profit when you are investing in US stocks is then you have to end up then you end up paying LTCG right so even if like let's say I go through vested or in money and I invest let's say in Netflix Netflix was at six hundred dollars of a few months back and then I invested in that and it went to eight hundred it even went to thousand but I actually uh when it was around eight forty I wanted to book some profit and invest that money in amazon it did not hit my account but it did hit the account or the drive well account that happened that is present in that eight money right that is also profit booking only yes correct your book profits so that's capital gain so whichever countries resident you are in you will have to pay taxes as per that country's law so I guess rotating money as of now in India when you are investing in US stock is not a good uh uh plan to go about yeah technically yes and because you are comparing it to UA right so but if you stop that comparison then anyways I mean for any Indians talk you are selling even if I either selling in India they are paying twelve and a half percent tax yeah but the problem is that I pay that TCS amount which when I put my money in in in in in the money right you like a certain amount you have to pay like some 20 percent of TCS and then on top of that there is also LTCG if there is some profit booking that is the only problem that I was not the problem but that's the confusion I had that is not hitting my account but still it is hitting the drive well the count which is so it doesn't matter no so what is happening is that's it you're going to the US market to trade you're buying a US denominated asset but you're a tax resident of India so when you buy US stock you're at you're buying US denominated asset now as per tax treaty between US and India if you're booking profits in the US market you have to pay taxes wherever you are a tax resident of so you're a tax resident of India so therefore you have to pay twelve and a half percent tax on your US investments also now that's a separate argument altogether that you have to pay TCS also remittance charge also all that that is being done by for transferring money from India to the US right. Well Bob what's your strategy when you do when you deploy money in in I know that you are from currently you're doing it from UAE but if you are deploying money and if you were in India and you were deploying in US stocks what are your strategies. No there is no strategy here and I mean these these are very clear cut rules so therefore I was not investing very aggressively in the US market because there was no option for me to do it right I mean therefore I had to make the call to like you know sort of shift to UA because for me like my investment income is a lot right so being like inability to rotate capital inability to trade in futures and options sensibly inability to book short-term profits long-term profits paying crazy money for remittances at my scale it was hurting me right so therefore I had to make that shift and go through all the pain that came with it right so so yeah I mean that was the eventual call that I made but if I were in India it would still be okay right I mean because you are in India is paying twelve and a half percent on Indian stocks also so it's not as if that you are being additional tax by going to the US market right PCS and all pain is there but again the point being that the moment you transfer like let's say one lakh rupees and convert that into a US stock you are getting dollar appreciation also okay yeah yeah you're right that's it hmm uh let me see yes hi action you talked about buying in a parabolic phone but would you be should you be exiting before the fall and if so how would you identify you will not be able to right so that's the problem right I mean I can tell you like you should exit this that stuff see adding stocks is easier selling stocks is very complicated right so there's no good time to sell right I mean because you don't know for example 2008 crisis the drop was 66 percent over to crisis the drop was around 45 percent right now if you're just sitting in 2020 not buying between when the market is corrected 45 percent or not maxing audio positions at 45 percent you would have not invested that money you know and that 45 percent when it went back to its previous I you missed all the gains on that money okay so the point being that the only thing to be done on a parabolic fall is to buy more that's it okay it's not about protecting your portfolio it's about see when you get into a boxing ring you will get hit you will bleed okay and you will hurt when you have to go through that pain to win the match right so that's what happens in a falling market you can't protect your portfolio in a falling market thank you okay but the way you will measure that is that see the market fell 45 percent my portfolio fell 15 percent your portfolio still fall but it will fall a lot less if you're buying continuously right sir okay awesome nice so I will see you like enough you hours right and hope you enjoy the class right and uh yes so in the evening we'll meet and we'll do fundamental analysis okay no it wasn't taking