Transcript for: Live Session V - Signs of a Good firm to invest in Part 2 -
Transcription Date: 2025-03-30 02:30:55.564964
==================================================

 So here we are getting two positive signals. One negative maybe, and one question mark. So based on this, you have to make a call. So you have to do this analysis for all 1718 points, and then sort of reach that conclusion. Passes of benefits to shareholders. Now what is the meaning of this? Now there are some companies. For example, there is a case study that I've done. It is on Vedanta. Please search Akshat Vedanta. And you will understand how exactly like promoters, promoters bought their own equity when the stock was down. And took money away in the form of dividends. So I'll not repeat that logic here. It's a little bit complicated logic. I've already made like a 20, 25 minute video on it. So in case you're interested in understanding that story, please don't. OK, from that. But what I will tell you is, and these are stories that you would have heard that for example, your friend is running a startup. He got like VC funding. Then he bought a Mercedes for his company. And then he roams around in that Mercedes. Now that's wasting investors money in a way. Similarly, if many VC found very funded startup guys, they live only in Oberoi's. And all that on like their investors money. Now that is, now whenever they are doing this, what are they doing? They're eventually reducing the profits of their company, because the company is paying for it. And that profit needs to be given to us. They colder or investors. It's the end of the day. So that is the red flag. Now does that happen in public markets also? Yes. Now you cannot go around like an hour. Because you have what like HUL store. So you'll stand in front of like HUL CEO's office and monitor his movements. And you'll see if he's taking on Mercedes or not. You cannot do all that. So you can't do that. But generally like there are certain industries where this profit siphoning off happens quite aggressively. For example, sugar stocks. Because many of you get excited to sugar stocks are dealing with this. That stuff. So for example, let's look at Balrampur, Genie. So this is a Genie mill or sugar mill. And what you will see is basically very cyclical nature of this business. For example, this is a negative cycle. This is a positive cycle. This is again another cycle. Phase one is two, phase three. This is another cycle going on. Now why is it like on the other hand, if you take a look at a dual type of businesses, they will go like up like this. So why do we have like this variation? Because what happens is that see, for example, this guy would have waited for like, you know, whatever like 10 years in the cycle. That he would be owning like 99% of his company or whatever. And then it went through a bad cycle. A lot of debt, a lot of headache, people running after him, come to me, a pass office, for over and all that. So he went through a lot of shit for like 10 years, 10, 15 years. Then there was some bullishness, that he would all branding. Okay, so Ethan all branding will do. Now suddenly sugar stocks start running because investors like sheep, they run after like a lot of things. His stocks went up in price. What do you think he will do? He'll say, you have a bit of a pass, I'll lay low. Okay, so that's a simple point. Right? If you're going to do something, he's going to sell some of his stocks. Right? A lot of his stocks or he's going to pledge it. Okay. So pledge it means that he will borrow against his stocks. Or his because his company value has gone up. Baluations of the company was 200 crores suddenly. It became like 1600 crores due to Ethanol branding. He'll buy like five Mercedes. Mola, yeah, yeah, Bada. Right. I don't know when the next down cycle will come. Because today they are giving me Ethanol branding. My stocks have gone up tomorrow. They will come and start demanding like 28% GST on sugar. And bullying a guy, sugar, sugar, so 38% GST. So if you know, at the end, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're, we're 28% GST. So right? So there's no barossa. So I'll just buy five Mercedes. At least my family will be safe. Okay. So that is what he will do. Okay. So that's what ends up happening on these type of cyclical stocks. Okay. Another. So this is an incentive problem in some companies. For example, SBI chairman. Now, SBI is the biggest bank in India. What is SBI's chairman's salary versus HDFC banks CEO salary? Huge difference. Okay. So for example, SBI chairman might be making less money than I would. Okay. So not kidding. So which is absolutely like pathetic. Okay. So now what incentive does he have to like, you know, sort of work in investors favor. Okay. So for this, you need to understand incentive problem. That what is the goal of a CEO? Like for example, if you're an American CEO, where America, American company Google, for example, it's undergoing like drama right now. That a lot of like stock correction is happening all that stuff. And what do you think like is the pressure on Sundar Pichai right now? BVB, I bought me business. I gave a lot of it. It's the simple point is that stock price should not fall. Why because if the stock price falls, investors are taking a loss. And then they will tell the board that you know what he's an idiot CEO fire him because he can't keep the company up in protecting shareholder's wealth is the number one goal of running a corporation. Okay. In America, this is literally said right. So I mean, for example, this was a question. I was in my corporate finance class when I was at NC art and like very famous guy. He used to teach us right hand. Basically, he has written a book called as blue ocean strategy right. So when you might have read that book right. So and this was the first thing that he told which kind of makes made a lot of sense to me also that okay, you know what? Okay, fine. And for example, like Apple right. I'll tell you the story of Apple here. So for example, if you go look at Apple. Okay. So here is Apple. It is going through 100 different problems right now. Warren Buffett. It's biggest shareholder. So Apple stock. When did he sell it? He sold it. Warren Buffett sold it somewhere here. Okay. So he exited apples somewhere here. Okay. After that, Apple fell like 10, 15 percent or 17, 18 percent right here. Another gear up. And since then it has run up. Now why has it run up in this zone? In this zone. This is called a corporate buybacks. Okay. That the company will go and buy its own stocks. Okay. Now as I explained that if the supply demand that is what determines the stock price right. So Warren Buffett sold Apple. Okay. So one supply increased right. And was not buying Apple again. But what did the company do? So Apple itself bought Apple here. Okay. So it raised the demand. Okay. So it did not fall much. Okay. Now how could now how did Apple buy this? Because it already had like you know billions of dollars sitting on their balance sheet. From which it would buy its own stock. Everyone in the understanding. Okay. Now even the more funny part I'll tell you right. Many people say you know, Zomato. Ne. For those money like from investors and they do have a heavy and they are making more money from this business. Then running their poor business is this true. Yes. Is this a problem? No. It's a problem of people who don't understand corporate finance. Okay. What is a fund higher? Okay. See, when do you think like I mean, for example, during like 2020 crash interest rate went to 0.25%. Who do you think borrowed money? For arms like Apple. What did they do? They build this cash reserves for what? For handling exactly situations like these right that if a big ticket investor leaves us. There is market panic. We ourselves can go and become like a l i c of our own company that we will my R's by our own stocks. And some what save it. Okay. So we might think that you know what business is going down Apple brand is coming down and you know people and on that excited to buy like Apple laptop. No product great product line inside. It's a temporary problem right it gives company some time to at least handle the situation. Now can they forever keep on buying their own stocks? No, they will run out of money. Okay. But at least for the timing they are able to do that right for at least like three four years they can survive and that's the game. Okay. How can you apply this knowledge? Okay. Very simple right. So right now US market is correcting right quite aggressively. I'm buying heavily. Okay. Now. At least I'll bring up like my portfolio to 50 60% of my intended amount go look at Google. Okay. So what is the issue with Google right for example here. This is the channel trading channel of Google. Okay. This is broken it's trading channel. It has fallen by roughly 24 25% from its peak. If you go and ask analyst why is it that Apple is sorry Google is following what will be the answer that actually the yourself are using complexity. Well, you're not even using Google Google is shit. Yes, I agree. Okay. So it's crap right on on that that you know and they are going to lose almost 67% of their advertisement revenue comes from. Sorry 67% of company revenue comes from advertisement right primarily driven by search right. So a major part of their business has gotten hit right. So therefore there is a 25% correction. How do you think how much do you think this maximum correction will be I'll say 40% right because Amazon had fallen like around 3540. So I do like one more bulk. Sit tight. What's my hope that will Google go back to its like golden days. I don't know. Okay, but are they setting on back massive balance sheet to buy their own stocks. Yes. Now this is like insightful points that you should know. So there is a high probability that you'll make money on that. So I hope everyone gets it. Okay. So. Okay. So passes of benefits to shareholders see this automatically happens at the stock price is good. So this is done either through dividends. Now many people get excited you know I LITC gives like 7% 7 and a half percent dividends all that stuff. Why see companies not doing you any a son by giving you dividends. Okay, so that's point one. In fact, dividend if you're buying stocks for dividend. You'll be taxed at the highest slab and you will be taxed twice. Now what is how how does that up. Okay, so for example, I skip any profit but negating profit. Okay, so for example, this company made 411 crores of profit. Now the company will pay whatever like 25% tax in India. Okay, now they are down to like whatever 350 crores. I believe. Okay, now out of these 350 crores, the company will decide that's easy. We will set up like two factories. So this is called as Kpex capital expenditure of the company to put two more factories. So that it can expand its business. Okay, so they will take like 100 crores here. Okay, they are left with 250 crores. So they are going to return this to shareholders. Right, so for example, if you want if there are only 100 shareholders, then each one like 11% and everyone gets 2.5 crore of dividend. Right, for that year and on that you'll have to pay slab tax. Okay, so how many times did you get taxed twice? Okay, so is dividend planning smart strategy? Absolutely not. Okay, never buy stocks for dividend. It's worst strategy to buy like stocks for dividend. Okay, there are ways to get dividend. As more says, no, you cannot get dividends. That's company's decision. That is not your decision. For example, if the company has no reinvestment opportunity, for example, Balram Churpur Chini guy says that you know what, I am doing it. I am doing it. I am doing it. But I have to ask for like my company rules. I have to distribute like whatever profits are remaining. If I can't reinvest, what will I do? I will have to like either do stock buy back, do not go any longer. I can then you know, distribute it as dividend. So, of course, if they do, right, whatever you want to do, give it that money. Right, so that's what is happening. Okay. Yes, so company buy back in the US is more prominent than that in India. Why is that the case? That's an interesting question for even me to solve. Yes, I don't know. Yes, so what I'll have to think. Right. So, okay, cool. I hope that this point is clear to everyone. Less prone to regulations. Regulations. Stable. Okay, so this is a very important point that the regulations on a business should be stable. Okay. So, for example, when it comes to banks, now are the regulations a lot? Yes. Okay, but are the regulations stable? Primarily yes. Okay, what about cryptos? Are the regulations a lot? I don't know. Are the regulations stable? Absolutely not. Okay, we are far away from like creating a bit of all that stuff. So, any crypto oriented business, if it gets listed in India, should you buy it right now? Absolutely not. Okay. It's a problem. Right. So, this is a complete opposite. What about gaming? Great industry. Growing out like almost 30% C.A.G.R. in India. Right. Dream 11. One of the most profitable startups. More people make teams on dream 11 than total mutual fund investing. Okay. So, they are more profitable than that. Right. Huge humongous company. Right. Again, there is a reliance collection or a money connection if you know, like dream 11. I don't know. Like if you guys know the search. Okay. So, you'll get more insights on how we are turning into like a monopoly. Okay. So, just read about like who runs like dream 11 along that. Okay. So, anyways. So, here is it stable. The short answer is no, it is not stable. They will they are fiddling around, but this is a highly profitable industry. Now, am I advising you not to buy these type of stocks? It's your call. Right. But the point is that for example, as a rule, I don't invest more than 5% even on companies like HDFC, HUL and all that. Okay. How much do you think that I'll buy something like let's say Delta Corp? Maybe like 1% to 2% of my entire portfolio. That's it. Okay. So, this is called as sensible investing. Right. I've been fine. It's okay to be handled. Right. For example, if I'll pick like maybe 10 such bets. It's fine. Right. At least even if two, three win. That's good money. Okay. But I hope you got the point. Right. The regulations have been stabilized. Right. Or it's less prone to regulation. Evie, for example, a lot of regulations are going to come on Evie. Right. If we get into autonomous driving cars, massive regulations are going to come on autonomous driving. If someone is like for example, Ola electric comes. And it says that we are going to like you know copy, Musk and we are going to make like a self driving car. Now, invest in our stocks now. Invest in our stocks now. Should you go in? Invest. No, why? Because you don't know like Adani Jeekaman, Gara, Vua, I have sky, I mean there is no end to this. Okay. Regulation as like right tapism is like crazy. Right. It kills literally stocks. Okay. So just buy like fairly stable industry, especially in a country like India. Okay. Very important. Right. When you're doing US investing, it's slightly different. Right. You can be a little bit adventurous. But given how corrupt the extent to which we are going to be. The extent to which corruption takes place like even in stock markets, it's very important for you to buy fairly stable companies in India. That's what I have realized. At least on your core portfolio. So what is core portfolio? I'll explain you tomorrow. But as a general rule of mine, right. If you're trying to identify good businesses in India, buy businesses that are somewhat regulated. Yeah. So yeah. Or where the regulation is quite clear. Okay. Okay. No dependency on one large client. Now, this is what my problem with IT industry is. But who do you think is the number one customer of IT industry or Infosys or TCS. Is US based minds. Now, if US is creating a lot of. Local businesses, which has what Trump's push has been. What do you think. Is going to happen to IT. Arms. Business. When I say one large client, it could be like a nation or it could be like one literally large corporate line. For example, in Madras and Sumis case, the large client is Maruti. Okay. So they are the primary buyers of their parts. Okay. So that's a risk that you're taking right that okay. Trump, very adventurous person. He can come and you know dictate terms to India. They have the financial muscle to do it. They are already in sourcing a lot of business to US. Some states have started to cut taxes. Complete zero taxes now. For example, today only I was reading like I think it was Mississippi or something that has cut taxes. They are on a path of making it pure capitalist economy. And they are doing well. Okay. So they are like on a positive trajectory on that note. Okay. India, we don't know. We are just waiting by time right now to react to whatever whenever we find stability. Okay. So this is not like very healthy right sign from that angle. Right. So you cannot buy like businesses, which are which have extreme dependence. Okay. What is a better strategy here? The better strategy is to buy domestic businesses, which will be. Which would not get impacted by regulations much or at least external regulations much. Okay. So for example, right banks in India now can they be regulated by the US entities? No, so like in banks are solid right. What about like something like NSE national stock exchange BSC. Bombay Stock Exchange CDSL camps these type of things right where the industrial. Time is expanding. These are low ROC is fairly high right. They don't have they don't have too much borrowings right to begin with. They will have to pass on benefits to shareholder. They are not cyclical stocks right. They are growth companies. So it's much better to buy these type of domestic consumption stories. Okay. So this is where I will just close this off. Next point that these companies should have some kind of pricing power. Okay. So now this is very important. What has happened in our economy is that basically the middle class is becoming lower middle class. Okay. And the expectation was that middle class will go to upper middle class. But they are becoming the middle class is now turning into lower middle class. So therefore you will find like a lot of delivery boys. The sector I'm not berating like any you know job. I respect all the jobs. But there's generally like if someone has done like master's degree bachelor's degree and you are like you know sort of delivering food etc. Then that just indicates desperation in the economy. That's not like a commissary job with your skillset. Okay. So people did not go to college to become like a delivery boy. Right. And that's let's be honest. Okay. So now this indicates that we are like you know moving towards that lower end right now as a result of businesses are getting hit. Okay. So this was like this is one of the primary thesis that has changed in my style of investing also that for example lot of middle class businesses. Which were pure like which would have cater to like this middle upper middle class are now going into lower end. Okay. For example, Zomato now who do you think avails Zomato service like these people lower middle class also eats food quite outside. Middle class. They also eat food quite a lot outside right. But when it comes to like let's say you know page industry products right for example jockey. Okay. So jockey is a mens underwear like a female underwear. I don't know like so basically what is happening is that see this is not like. This is not a product that you can flaunt right I mean like you would not wear underwear over your mats. Okay. So like yeah. So it's not as if that this is required right as a signalling so people will save money here if they can. Right brand does not probably matters that much okay value products for example value housing is going up right trend went up like crazy. Why because it's competing in a value segment. So businesses that can cut cost and are becoming extremely price competitive those are generally bad businesses to start with for example if you have to go. Like trend is a temporary phenomenon according to me right. So for example if you have been a dedicated customer of decathlon so for example I'm one of the firm advocates of like decathlon when decathlon started the quality of their t-shirts was exceptionally good. So you can go and check right absolute pathetic quality alright so it's not so the area where we are getting us that a lot of businesses have started to cut cost okay. So in this type of an environment you should stick to companies that will not do too much price cutting over the next five six years. Now what are some examples. So even before that right why should we not buy businesses where there's a constant price cut. The reason is very simple that there is only an extent to which you can cut price okay and those businesses always go out first for example if page industry has to constantly keep on cutting price of its product right at the back end. There's only a limit to which they can cut price right so they are following anti-premiumization and there is no way for them to sell like more underwear by saying that you know what we are making like premium underwear there's no one gives a shit okay so like they want to save cost on this item right. It's just a product where brand does not matter that much right to them okay. On the flip side if you are looking at let's say Apple products then yes brand value is still there people would still flaunt their Apple laptop or Apple watch or whatever okay so some value is still there right. Amul I yeah so Amul could be like one of those things okay so that is there right but again here the issue is that because of the use extensive use of palm oil. A lot of rules titling tightening by FSCI for example analog paneer right I mean for the last 10 years both the money for India right because you do not get soft money anywhere else in the world right whenever I used to come to India I used to eat like this are a one you try to put this like a mock paneer or whatever like analog paneer right so then. Now it's proving that it's bad for you so yeah when I'm vegetarian honey to the as you are they have an after the scam so they can I just eat like seafood that's it to be so. Oh so you could just legal that I think but whatever right so what I mean that FSCI is tightening a lot of rules so and food products are one where a lot of rule tightening should happen right and is likely to happen going forward okay so. Okay so anyways I hope that you got this point okay so here by forms that have some kind of pricing power for example when you're ready to go right if you go and check right at you are right every year they were doing like a 10% 12% price hike of their product okay. For example and this can again be checked right so just simply go and ask for flexibility by what percentage HUL it's prices of products so poorly designed question but hopefully it will answer okay. Okay. Okay in 2020 and HUL products by increase. Okay so detergent and soap increased by like 3 to 14 8 to 12 so the point is that they are still raising their prices by like you know 10% a year okay this is faster than inflation right now if a company is able to increase its product faster than inflation that's a healthy sign so Nestle HUL art companies that can still do it now why can they do it because they are somewhat aspirational okay. For example NIRMA went out because it was catering to like a lower segment customer right and HUL came and it ate a lot of NIRMA's business right not was a simple thing so the point is that the customer segment that you are targeting see recent correction give or I'm not talking again I'm not talking about price right right now right and HUL like I'm in a long term basis if you zoom out and check right for example here. If you zoom out right I mean leave these like small little corrections here and there right what has changed I mean it has not changed much right it has consolidated from here to here therefore it becomes a buying opportunity now it will again move up right and this was like the shrinkage of the middle class that has happened after 2020 yeah from here to here okay so of course even HUL will get hit even Nestle will get hit okay that's not going to change with the bottom line being that they are still fairly consistent businesses okay and they are still going to be able to do it. And they have undergone a price correction already so and time correction already so it's not as if that you're buying it at a very expensive levels right so net net it's okay because otherwise what product will you think right so for example in my opinion something like PVR people will still be okay paying like high ticket prices because the customer segment is very elite okay similarly NRI oriented products the customer segment is very elite okay similarly dream folks which is into like lounge is etc so there their products and their cards etc works really well they are doing more partnership as the card business evolves now who really spends with like credit card debit cards a lot of like middle class people right I mean they do it so this business this segment of population has paying capacity okay so basically like target businesses where people have a paying capacity right so for example if I just have to quickly draw the grid right for example like a sugar industry right this is bad right here the only thing this is a complete cost based industry right if you can offer at the lowest possible price for example hal de ram is the buyer of Beltrampur Chini what does hal de ram care about price not the singular thing it creates about it doesn't give a shit about anything else okay sugar is sugar you're not going to change like quality much right on like unless like you have some very complicated manufacturing product then you had like companies like paid industries which was doing well but over long term you have to start thinking that okay can they premium eyes or not okay then at the top you will have like HUL Nestle okay has their business also gone now yes okay everyone's business has gone on it's not as if that you know what other companies are doing like exceptionally well okay but the point is that the hit is less because they can still premium eyes okay on top of this there will be like companies like dream folks PVR right which are catering to elite now again will their business get hit if the middle flash rings yes right because they're losing customers but the point is that they still don't have to discount their products they can still you know supply like provide like fixed seats okay so I hope that this kind of makes sense okay now let me take you through some other points okay now as long as you're not buying at you well expensive you would have still made a money in this sideways market okay that's what I keep on advocating and right now is a very good time to buy HUL why because it is below 200 day moving average line okay so this I'll teach tomorrow but right now it is at very good valuation okay same applies to Asian points demand in elastic now there are two types of demands Ravan is called as in elastic demand and another is called as elastic demand okay elastic demand means page industries okay so for example underwear goes from like 20% price hike you'll find something else okay because you don't care that much okay on the flip side insurance okay or hospitals right you have to get your kidney changed or whatever will you go to like sargharios will probably know right and you might go to like max only it lives with the Vaseline right but just save my life so that is a completely inelastic product okay now in India what are like two businesses that I'm betting on hospitals and insurance right massive crooks they are going to make crazy amount of money invest with them get rich okay so that's unfortunately what all you get okay so yeah so I'm no interest in selling like max stock and all that right it just bought it holding it they will compound wealth like anything okay so it's very simple even if you're buying them at a premium it's fine as long as you have 10 year viewpoint for example many of you think say that tell me like something in 10 years that I can buy hospitals okay so great stocks okay so just simply buy this chances of it as long as you're not buying them at an over valued price it's fine okay how to check over evaluation that we will talk tomorrow but generally strong business 100% yes why because the the business is very solid right now right why because the insurance industry is getting organized in India hardly handful of people had insurance before 2020 it will take at least 10 years for the insurance industry to get mature in India so insurance industry directly is going to benefit along with that what else is going to benefit hospitals because who home insurance industry style up with hospitals it becomes mandatory at one point okay so both of these things are great right I don't understand pharma I don't invest in pharma anymore okay could be both the right now right so in for example API or China so that India is all I'm not going to be right so not only in just by like insurance companies and stocks and hospital stocks for me that plays great right for you if you understand pharma industry which companies going to do which in drug launch be my guest like try to speculate on that I don't know enough about there is too many complications in that right because India is a very complicated supply chain right out of like even our API mark see API is I'm on API means those raw material through which medicines are built in pharma now we don't have an end product we don't have a brand brand person right so very less work is getting into that so I don't want to buy commodity therefore I don't buy pharma more but as long as pharma is growing it's common to think that pharma will also grow because of hospitals right so as long as you're buying like two three good hospitals max was one of my bets which is doing well I'm not sold anything uh Narayan Hiddale is good right so that's two you have a polo right so that that's again good but honestly like all hospitals are good right as long as you're not doing anything crazy okay so okay uh tailwinds tailwind means that something is happening which is positive okay so tailwind is like this headwind is like this you are moving in this direction okay so this is going up uh downstream okay so downstream means that if you row the boat here right you'll grow row faster but if you have to row the boat this way right then you will slow down okay so this is tailwinds now again the insurance example that I gave you the hospital example that I gave you those are critical products right uh industry is expanding more people are availing uh healthcare they have more you cannot create like another max hospital chain it will take you thousands of crores to buy like prime real estate and good now and all that okay uh cost of capital is now sensible for them there is no dead flag this is happening uh this is also okay right I mean this is always questionable right less prone to regulation yes hospitals are very well regulated already they are B2C type of businesses B2C means directly they charge them customers they are not B2B but they also have a B2B element which is insurance okay so they will tie up with insurance company offer like you know whatever like centers and they have pricing power absolute crazy right pricing power okay so you would have read the case that ventilator you have to leave it right and all that and it's charged like crazy amount of money so there are two stories or anyways there okay KTAS to luxury right so this is where people have money right for example in 2021 Mercedes did its record sales in India okay not getting right so I mean the entire India was suffering and Mercedes was selling highest number of parts in India okay so similarly record luxury sales of apartments in India for example Camilla and whatever apartments are there 150 crores these are look it's crazy because of people have that kind of money in India yes so which they are buying okay so that is there uh so this is anything that KTAS to like luxury segment it's great now why am I bullish on like Dubai real estate and goa real estate why because luxury is what luxury is aspirational if you are in India many of you feel unsafe buying a property abroad right so you will say that Pataniya, Chilia, my property for in land with this that's not we cannot anyways travel they have to be in India so yeah what's that aspirational three tell me like three aspirational locations in India where people really want to right so goa is one okay one could be mountain okay so abhi goa has gotten like a little bit of hate you know tourism this that stuff but tourism is sick like a lever Dubai tourism has gone on not as if that only goa tourism is suffering okay but movies when they start getting made they'll chata and you know whatever like deer's in the gear and all that why were they shot and goa right because of aspirational value right so people want to live that type of life what type of property should you buy in goa already homes okay so holiday homes means what that you already have one house in Bombay Mumbai Bombay Bangalore Delhi polluted cities you want to enjoy peace live in a clean environment you own a holiday room in go okay so you come you spend like two months rest of the time if you want to do Airbnb do Airbnb otherwise leave it vacant okay so that is like how it goes okay so that's aspirational Dubai if you want to buy an international property where would you buy it Dubai in New York Singapore Singapore is crazy expensive if you're a foreigner you have to pay 22-23% time duty if I'm not mistaken so that goes out of hand so you can't buy Singapore realistically speaking New York again is very complicated to travel for Indians from India to US long flight very difficult to monitor Dubai yes because from goa it's a three-hour straight flight to my place do to do it takes me like seven hours it's much more convenient for me to travel from Dubai to goa then from goa to Delhi not getting okay so yeah so Dubai so someone was joking that Dubai is the best Indian city okay so it's actually true right so it's much more convenient to travel that way right so therefore like and Dubai has that aspirational value 50% jump there is Indians okay so it's not getting right so that's how it is right so it's aspirational it's very simple right on a 10-15 20-year basis these two locations are going to do exceptionally well why very simple trends right so I was just studying the housing data right so for example Bangalore to Bangalore means so there is something called as housing supply to population data okay sorry housing supply to population correct so housing supply to population data if you take which indicates that for example if the ratio is 100 okay so which means that for every 100 people there is one house okay so in Bangalore Delhi Mumbai if you study the data the data tells us so this is a tweet also that I've done I just I don't want to miss quote the numbers right so I'll just show you right so okay so this is the data right so you can in fact search for it as well try so so Dubai for every seven people there is one house right and for Bangalore for every one 85 people there is one house okay so that is the level of competition that is there right in like in terms of housing and therefore like the housing prices do not make sense in any metro whatsoever why do you think that is the case that is primarily because of job markets okay the moment the job markets spreads to 2025 cities the type of correction that you will see in like major metros that's going to be unprecedented right so that is going to happen right you will have hard time selling your properties there where are people gravitating to right so like going forward 10 15 20 years down the line what is likely to happen very simple that people are going to live in cleaner environment that the demand is in elastic okay you need to preserve your health there is no other option number two as employment opportunities go online more and more and then a viable way of making like money right for example content creation small small businesses which is their agency model which where we are heading right so even like read Hoffman who is the founder of LinkedIn his predictions are pretty much accurate about everything especially on job markets so according to him right most people would be freelancing right after like in another 15 20 years where do you think that you know the crowd is going to move right clean up environments like that automatically like I mean it has got nothing to do with the Indian government per se you know city even abat the even abat the ins that cities networks hubs will automatically form okay so as and when people are able to figure out these opportunities okay so just think from that angle okay so I hope that this point is clear okay so this is advanced slash slash tailwind concept okay Kitas to luxury this I have explained OPM means operating profit margin okay so operating profit margins simply means that for example AMC business right so asset management companies are great companies to generally own in India tech companies are great companies to own anywhere in the world why because they fear they have fairly high operating profit margin why because they don't have too much fixed cost right they don't have too much too many factories for example HDFC AMC the entire company you can run with five people and move like 50,000 crore rupees every month okay why you have to go like you know five computer lagane five interns but on it and you can move money from point to point we have an office in Russell game right so I have three risks that's it right so I have a team of three in in UAE right now right there's a small office right I mean because my job is money management so I don't require that bigger team but if I were operating like a small manufacturing unit I need to have like at least a stop of 20 25 people okay so therefore these businesses are high operating profit margin businesses right tech money management so these are general banks banks are also okay right I mean they have to have like physical presence in India but generally like money churners are AMCs right are anything to do with stocks money right very low Kpex right and very high operating profit margins okay so I will probably just close the class after this can't take vertical horizontal integration this I've already explained usually not in news for example good businesses you'll not typically find in news okay and this is specially true for like small cap companies so how to analyze small cap companies I'll write notes right I mean there's no point in bringing it up in this course but generally if you are finding too much news on a company for example recently Vedanta with a lot of news I gin solve a lot of news I just avoid okay either you are early in the cycle for example if you bought swiggy pre IPO your money was preserved but if you bought swiggy post IPO you are destroyed okay why because the stock it 600 and now you're setting at 50 percent loss but in unlisted I bought it at 360 now the stock is at 350 despite 15 percent market correction so it's not as if that anything has happened avoid capital intensive businesses like telecom railways power sector they are good turnaround stories they are good swing trades okay but as an investment mine forget three years five there is no guarantee defense right you win a defense contract the company goes up if it does not win in defense if it does not win a contract then it goes to final point I'll explain in the evening class what is the meaning of valuation and but yeah I hope you enjoyed this class right it gave you clarity right on how to analyze a business if you just to do these 17 points then you create an investment thesis and an investment canvas which I'll continue in the evening class but at least it gave you a sense this was like an mini MBA which I was able to hopefully wrap up in like two hours right but I hope it was not boring right it was slightly boring class I know but at least it now what you do is that you basically take a printout of this right these 17 points and you'll stick it wherever your mind stocks okay and every time you have the urge of mind a stock for example ITC career career career career so at least just quickly go through these 16 17 points it will give you like that level headedness okay so that will give you an understanding the WSE simply means that weighted average cost of capital so a company takes both debt capital and equity capital and if you weighted average it for example 50 50 8 right so then the weighted average will be 0.5 into 0.5 whatever the cost of debt capital is an equity capital is and then you get like a average number for example the cost of the or the for example the weighted average cost of capital for a danias 14% okay so you can search this number on complexity for example just simply go and check a danias say how to use screener I'm already teaching you I'm doing it in front of you you don't need to become like an expert screener right and there is no automation that you can create on screener that okay my stock you know falls to this and I buy this no that's automating trades going to be not on screener screener is a research tool okay so you just create like basic screens that I will teach you tomorrow right what filters to use sometimes and even that is not required honestly you have to do like macro analysis which we learned last week business analysis what we learned today now technical I've taught a little bit tomorrow we will do a class on selling stocks so that will get covered there okay so I mean if you combine these three four analysis fundamental business technical macro then you get like a good sense what to buy what to avoid okay please clarify how we can buy nifty 50 you buy something called as nifty bees and I have to buy BWES you can buy it directly on your trading account where you buy stocks from or you can buy it in mutual fund format but I buy ETFs because they are no that because I do like I mean I don't track my mutual fund portfolio much so since I'm tracking like ETF usually right on my because I track my stocks so then it's easy to liquidate okay I hope that this is how to buy agricultural land agricultural land is very complicated it's just see agricultural land it's it's complicated don't get into all that there are a lot of laws around agricultural land you can't buy agricultural land as an outsider in many states agriculture is a state subject okay so and diloy it open big office looking okay buy property on small city not at all okay so see problem with small city properties is that you will not get buyers no one more aspires to buy a property in qualia where I am from okay so even qualia people don't want to buy property in qualia okay so like I'm from qualia so I don't want to buy property there so liquidating it is a big headache okay so there right and if you buy it in like and the deals that you get are like pathetic for examples even if you get a buyer they will say that we will give you money after three years okay so give us a property now and after three years and I make money from the shop I'll return to the government's madness okay companies like power grid opium I don't think that's the case okay excel sheet I'll send you guys right now so don't worry yeah provide yeah excel sheet is everything is written on that sheet so I'll conclude teaching and send it to you right tomorrow thought day after has like this last week I did some further direction on text off so yesterday you know that Nalta corrected by 2.5 percent so it's so just in a week's time of me delaying and you know so you I will be saved 2.5 percent of your portfolio okay so now that does not mean that I can help you time the bottom okay so you have to start buying at some point right so tomorrow I'll cover more from this private bank ETF view that so you can buy that sometimes you sell 50 percent and I'm dying to sell 10 percent how to decide okay tomorrow okay thank you Sophia okay so problem with HDFC securities is that they will charge you a lot of commissions right and 0.5 will charge you less or any zid 0 discount broker is going to charge you less so 0.5 stocks grow anything that you can use typically I would say that right because the what do you call the brokerages fairly like well regulated industry so I don't think that there is any right there how do buy districts properties and you okay so you have to be very active in the property market okay wait wait a little bit okay I think very good deals I want to come up in the by soon okay so it's just have to be a little bit patient keep ready your cash by and after analysis they're already coming up in fact right so I mean I'll few deals have started to come up now right so it really depends on what type of portfolio you want to create in UA buying properties in UA is hyper complicated there are so many choices you'll go mad okay so be very very careful with what you buy okay here but overall very solid property market you can make money right no doubt about that but just be very patient don't give into the form okay and there will always be like great properties to buy in Dubai Goa has opposite problem that properties do not come up in Goa that's the problem in Goa right so no one wants to build right so like that station okay where can you see exact back so just search on publicity buying index versus ETF ETF is an exchange traded fund of an index okay so there is a difference between ETF and mutual funds okay you know it's same right I mean honestly like for investment purposes one and the same there are differences like you know what is what you call expense ratio and all that okay how is good now property market for from future perspective my simple question to you is that if Goa is almost as expensive as Charger not getting okay so I find Goa Charger to be less expensive than Goa and it's Charger is 10 times better than Goa right and we take quality of food pathways you can walk whether right six months a year at least right so people look at desert it you know so no I mean right now if I go down right I can walk and sweat will also not come right so I mean it's like that nice right now in March it's up on November to March you a is pretty good right I even I was surprised with the weather so I don't see the value and like you know Goa and all it's surviving now because it's concrete jungle right I mean if you look at like the green age green acreage right on construction to green age ratio it will be very low in Goa at least Delhi's greener compared to Goa right so Goa is now developed because Delhi was overcrowded right so that's the point right and I don't know till what point that will continue right but yeah so okay can you provide us material okay so this I'll provide defense stocks I don't buy right and I'm very happy like I mean with some broad beds that I've taken not to buy defense not to buy data motor strength all these stocks have gone through like massive selling like small cap mid cap index at very good levels very happy with that move that was like I think the move of the last three four years right entering into US stocks now exceptionally good time now to start building positions in US stocks that's where money will real money will be made in the next five six years okay so I feel that Indian markets will go sideways if you can't capital rotate you'll not make money in Indian market but in the US market long term you can make money right so yeah I mean if you can sort of you know start building some positions there kind of makes sense okay on a listed companies okay I will suggest okay Bitcoin ETF you can buy if you're not buying direct Bitcoin see it's not like you know Dubai property market right it's not as if that this is a good time to buy like any property in Dubai that will never be the case right I mean even when the market is deeply distressed in Dubai whenever that happens it's not as if that you will you know every property is worth buying in them right there are such there are so many complicated options for example people are building one bedroom apartment and builders are building one bedroom apartment and putting a private pool in that in terrace now I'm never seen like such hideous structures in my life okay so like it's ridiculous right I mean why would someone do swimming in like a one bedroom balcony okay it makes no sense there's no logic to that right I mean and people are buying such properties okay so it's madness okay I bought like a property in business right right right in front of me there is like an elington building coming elington is a wonderful developer okay but the price point right I mean I bought it at 1600 PSF right the rumps right and that's building in front of me selling it at like 3200 PSF 50% more right so it's crazy if you're paying like that type of margins to a builder right there will be nothing for you okay you are buying at like 10 year future price okay so you have hard time like so it's it's very very important to study it Dubai real estate market is more complicated than India's stock market it was a done so I'll say right so it's really like deal-wise you have to make a call yeah how do buy ETFs okay how do buy nsc this I'll tell okay so even we'll pick okay I've been picky nifty these last five days this should I continue see Indian markets are fairly valued now somewhat fairly valued so you can pick not an issue right but having said this long term wise you have to be sensible right at least have 30% diversification out of India okay unfortunately I learned this if I have to talk about one primary mistake that I made in my investing journey in the last five years this was it right so that I did not diversify internationally earlier okay why because I never wanted to move outside India okay but after a point it got like you know crazy right so I had to right which meant that you know I never built any system of moving outside India and which meant that inadvertently I had to invest everything that I had in India yeah so it was not a very smart strategy which was very tax inefficient right and now I'm like realizing that it's just not yeah it's just not worth it okay so yeah swing trading I'm already teaching you along the way so I've taught you some in the last week right more I'll teach okay thank you and any example of when we went wrong with socks section what could be the reason a lot of times right so for example just say Rajesh export right so again I did not know that the company would do fraud HDFC bank we bought in little bit early right that was to right but then make a mistake with HDFC no I mean I think it has already given a decent run up now right that was to what else uh momentum in trading I did not do like a couple of years back when I should have done right so that's another so you always make mistakes that's not the point right in the EV announcement would it be good to take positions in TBS see TBS is good right I think two dealers is going to do well they are already corrected quite a lot hero motorclaw of TBS, Bajaj or to all three of fine you can hunt okay best ETF to buy Bitcoin okay I'll check this because I do not buy ETFs right but let me check uh is there any platform which we can buy US stocks tomorrow I'll tell right so vested you can use I'm an angel investor invested so I'll give you like a link if you guys want you'll get more discounts otherwise the FX charges are more right so that's a problem that you will typically face right I mean if you just simply open an account with vested or I&D money then every time you're converting your I&R into US dollar that's where you'll lose a lot of commissions at least that problem I'll help you solve to a very large extent okay gray scale between available on vested huh I think they are right I'm not shanked vested as refunded extra money to my international bank is now asking me for purpose code etc then I wait to redeem money from vested there is no complication it's very easy to redeem money from vested because vested has a partnership with HDFC one but every time you move money in and out of India you have to give procedural disclosures right there is nothing that you know we can do about it right and if you do it with any other party also this is the same process then you'll have to go okay but the good news is that once you know what purpose code to put how to fill that form it's a you know let's get a five minute job okay nsc ipodilate for two years what's your take for unlisted share buyer see nsc is still you have to look at assets like nsc on a large scale on a large on a large time frame basis so if you're looking at it at a 10 year basis then nsc is a very solid stock okay it is literally like how to put it for example crypto is an indicator of sorry Bitcoin is an indicator of crypto space nsc is an indicator of India stock market okay so it's not even like yeah that's how I'll put it okay so as the stock adoption goes up nsc will benefit automatically right and it's as stable as it gets foreign investors can't buy too much of nsc the only issue with nsc is buying at the right price now no one knows so therefore buy like 50% and unlisted 50% after it gets listed and if it goes through a correction because what has happened is that bsc has given like you know almost 10x run up now people know this so the moment nsc ipod comes in people are going to jump okay and they are going to pump it up right anything your views on mana Puram has been see gold I'm not taking too much bets now it's extremely bullish so I'm not comfortable taking too much bets on gold because you're buying absolute positive sentiments on gold right now okay so does it make sense to over-invest in gold absolutely not if you're just doing it for diversification it's fine okay yes I'll share the excel spreadsheet I myself don't teach why I'm not so what will I teach you I tell like stories and all right so I think you just revive the class okay buying index was just I've explained can you buy Bitcoin ETF in India yes you can so for example on West did you can buy Bitcoin ETF will lose to Mahindra and Maruti will lose to international brands I think so okay is buying us talks from Singapore advantageous the capital gains in Singapore is zero if you're a tax resident of Singapore technically you should be paying 0% tax as far as I know and how should we buy from here so you have e2ro something like this so you can buy that or your bank might open an at-rating account for you so you can do that as well so any Singaporean bank will open it okay what do you listen to geography to understand the different views what do you listen I actually talk to a lot of people yes so like my primary knowledge base is like talking to people right I myself invest my money so I have to keep tracking it I have to keep on like looking at charts graphs all that right so on on day and day out basis so that's primary source of information and the best information source right now is perplexity learn how to use it okay so that's the even if you're not using any other single website okay just download perplexity and use it it's great okay yes you can is there an index for NSC private bank yes so it's called private bank ETF I don't know which company has launched it just search pvt bank ETF you will get it on your zero nagu okay thank you but conch and want to know the grace scale okay I'll get back on like bitcoin ETF which one you can buy because I'm no I do not buy it from an ETF basis so I don't have it right in the back of my mind should I let that be completely ah vintika says that I'm on like one-way eight percent profit and most companies are good fundamentally see you should always rotate capital you might have bought it in a great market right which was at twenty twelve thousand five hundred you might have caught some because you honestly like one twenty is not that great to be honest if you're looking at if you put some money in a fall because the market itself corrected by fifty percent right so if you bought the dip people are sitting on like two hundred two twenty five two fifty plus basis also right so you should learn how to rotate capital that I will always advocate okay which platforms to buy us stock script or buy an ii ii b care you can buy you can that's good okay cyclical stocks I'll talk tomorrow silver ETF I'll talk silver say I don't buy silver okay I won't nse ipo pricing be interested I want you to kiss like me is in a new valuations no one can say anything about valuation of nse I'm being upfront with you it's very hard to value company right what I know for sure is that it's unlikely to come at a discount right so for example if you buy unlisted ipo jbb you will make a new high okay so that's given okay now then depending on the market circumstances the market remains bullish that it will continue to do well okay if it the market becomes bearish then of course it will correct right and then it will go through a pie price discovery me that I haven't checked but overall it should be okay but I'll double check okay thirty eight on five crore nifty I'm not right for the problem I just want to try to fall on the bottom and then the price and what I priced around you might not have bought it 15 percent down because that's when I had said that I'm buying nifty now then it went back went up by like six percent so if you just calculate that the profit should be much higher okay companies like power grid I don't know I bet India seems okay it's it's a good company overall akshat for your tax and UAE is zero then why did you do tax laws harvesting because for my India investments which are already there right I still have to pay LTCG and STCG okay even as an LRI so I have to tax laws harvest there okay but if I'm investing in the US stocks as a UAE tax resident then the taxes are zero so I don't need to do any tax laws harvesting in the US okay wow how much of a way able total this I'll ask answer tomorrow right okay I didn't understand center your question it will be if you please get it you get it problem okay I tried to no I don't I don't get it so for example if you check my post so when I made that post at that point in time and in fact I have put the picture also that it was at minus 16 percent now if if I is now the when I'm exited that trade I made like around six percent returns all right so six seven percent returns right on that so therefore that 38 lakh profit around that was a point yeah Parma I already explained I don't understand Parma okay so it's easier to understand insurance and healthcare okay so I'm buying those because it serves one in the same purpose okay the Parma growth will not happen without growth in insurance and healthcare stocks or hospital stocks right yeah Kavita Paul hey hi Akshad thank you for taking this time and doing this course right I mean thank God you're a passionate educator so I'll first get to learn from you thank you for that my quick question is around these 17 parameters and the multiple stocks that we track and each stock is probably in you know on a different journey maybe ROC is not on point maybe PE is not on point what's your best practice and keeping track of of of these stocks that's question number one oh yeah and the second one is are these parameters what we would also apply to evaluate small and mid cap or are there different parameters and considerations perhaps the ROC etc may not be applicable so are there different parameters for I think tomorrow tomorrow I'll take you through these one two three four five six seven eight nine nine nine type of stocks so your question your second question will get answered there right but having said this you still have to do business analysis of the 1718 points or and map it onto these seven eight type of stocks that I'll be teaching okay so both these things need to be looked at in conjunction that's point one point was that there are differences between small gap consistent compounded stocks five x baggers 10 x baggers all these tech stocks cyclical stocks so there is a proper time to buy what things you'll look at so I'll cover that tomorrow right in portfolio building okay but having said this if you do the business analysis well those 17 points which I taught you today then 80% you're already there right so you'll not make mistakes in terms of buying a bad asset okay so at least you will understand why you are buying something so that's the idea it's completely okay do buy cyclical stocks no problem okay it's completely okay do buy power companies but you need to understand in what category they fall and do the business analysis accordingly okay so and and and your good best practice to track these you know each each each stock for example let's say HSUL maybe the P is on a different journey maybe there is B expansion that we expect maybe it's not the right time to buy yeah you track these perhaps in an excel or do you just run screeners when you're ready to I don't run screeners basically like there are stocks that will that that I'm anyways tracking right for example 30 40 50 stocks so it's a watch list that my I might have now if there is any significant price movement for example if I don't have any for example I sold in FD 50 right on a trade now if I want to invest it somewhere so now I'm studying like private banks it looks very undervalued it looks undervalued so I'll invest some money there now if HUL looks undervalued as per my analysis then I'll you know sort of do that but honestly see I mean your goal is not to become like a stock analyst right that's a full time job it's pointless I mean you cannot track so many stocks the idea is that if someone is giving commentary for example if I'm giving commentary on some stock HUL or whatever it is you're able to absorb it and apply it to your portfolio that's the idea of the course okay thanks thank you yeah no yes actually good morning can you please explain about the risk reward equation for which kind of stocks we need to do this risk reward equation and based on fundamentals or based on technicals my question is this yes so risk reward is primarily due to it's a mix of both right I mean first you have to do fundamental analysis right and if the fundamental check is there on the stock then only you will enter that on technicals right you will will not buy like crap companies purely based on like technicals okay so that's one second is that the risk reward equation is done as per technicals so that 2 is to 1 strategy that I'd explained you last week right so that's a technical risk reward analysis right so what do you simply do is that you look at the potential upside on a strategy and potential downside on the strategy and figure out like and if you're going to individual assets there should at least be like you know if the stock is risky then at least there should be a 2 is to 1 ratio that if you win you will get 2 rupees if you lose then you will only lose 1 right so that's the equation that we're looking at maybe I'll cover it tomorrow again okay yeah thanks yeah I have to thanks for all your reaching that's really wonderful I have two questions number one when is the likely timeline for any say I point we can't predict but what is your thesis around that about the timelines for the IQ I don't know I don't care also right so I'll let them I feel whenever they want to I feel that's beyond my control right so honestly like I mean no how can anyone tell you right I mean even if you ask like NSC president or something right I mean even they would not know this is a government decision when they want to bring it to the market okay the second question you already talked about the real estate in the smallest cities but I might wish it was particularly about this full bullet train project which is coming up from Bombay to Ahmed and my thesis is that on that route the last station is like a surat for example or Baroda kind of predict cities or not that Metro but second dial cities are going to benefit from a real estate it was my thesis do you think making our property investment from a rental point of view future will make sense then see a problem with small cities is that you will never get buyers in small cities right whenever you might invest if you have the money right but then finding like another for example in Dubai if you are selling a property worth 50 gross you can have 10 buyers tomorrow okay but if you're trying to do the same in Gwalior right then you will not find buyers that's a problem right because all the high ticket people either move outside India or they move to metros or they will have like some or they move to like holiday markets like Goa or like you know like a pondituary Luxubi exotic locations right so tier 2 tier 3 real estate thesis I don't really believe anymore right because liquidity is a major challenge right selling real estate becomes a major pain point it on paper you will keep on seeing you know what the prices doubled became five times and times but the moment you try to sell your real estate it's a nightmare right and tier 2 tier 3 cities okay thanks thanks they will yes so along with the embassy there are other few pending and listed stocks that have come out which is like this per act for it financial advice really also a SFC securities which are like the the purchase and the purchase price is also pretty high it was 11000 rupees and per act for it is 8000 something like that but yes so see I mean I'll write like separate stock analysis for per act for it right absolute stock price does not matter right for example MRF stock is like one lab propia stock it doesn't matter okay it's like saying that for example 1000 there are not is there okay so which is equivalent to 25000 to P note 25000 if you have 1000 did I'm not or if you have five into you know you know 200 right dirams it's one and the same thing so this absolute stock price is pointless right it's the valuation which is more which matters more okay so then my follow up question for that would be that I have actually gone to analyze with the price that internet is living and it's like I'm shopping with this price with a different company because I don't realize is actually able to give me an SES stock at a lower price than what internet is able to give me I did not know that actually I wasn't privy to that information that that could also happen but is this a right practice I don't know anything about this is this a is this a right practice b is it safe to do that to take this share price and kind of play with it I kind of happen to do this because I have my MLTs with the edelwice I use buy some ncd the MLTs with edelwice so I just asked them about that and they were actually able to lower the price so it was like me shopping around with this so see I mean honestly like this is private banking right so for example if edelwice is giving you a better rate it's fine go with that not an issue having said this check for two three things one is that companies like edelwice they will charge some commissions on top of the base price right ingrid might not be doing that right that's one second is that if you're liquidating this asset and then companies like ingrid can help you sell also now will edelwice do that for you I don't know so you have to check these things and third is the reputation right so for example in credit money is a part of incorrect group which is already a unicorn and they themselves are IPOing soon right so there is like things that stick sharu Khan is an investor like I mean all the router it is a brand ambassador all that stuff don't buy it from like you know other like basic platform right for example there are a lot of companies like I don't know precise unlisted zone all that just because they're offering better price just don't simply go to that check for like these three four things and since you have an existing relationship so edelwice might be offering you like a genuine deal I'm not sure okay this one last question so you put membership subscription as same notes as the website community so do you push your content at the same time in both channels I'm asking this because I should I continue my membership or can I just follow your WhatsApp channel oh no just WhatsApp is fine in your case right because you're already a core student so you don't need all right thank you thank you I actually so I have bought HUN and Asian paints and point of entry was wrong for me so I'm at loss both of them and I want to be kept the 5% thing on both of them now watch it step what don't do nothing okay okay thanks no a topic hello sir good noon I'm a sketch level beginner I just want to know how to buy nifty 15 decks or nifty private bag index please tell me stick right so just go on guide by zero the right where you are you buy from like buy your stocks so for example if you don't have like stock trading account then you need to open one with zero the or whichever company will like right then on that you just go on the search button and type nifty b's and I have TY bWS and buy that that's it and for this get for that gets swing trading for swing trading zero that is better from any other brokerage no so what happens is that if you're going to zero discount brokers like zero the upstarts grow these are called a zero discount brokers so here the commissions that you will pay are the least if you go with hdfc securities if you go with e-dilwise etc then they typically charge you more because they are helping you in a personalized manner so to say so the charges are much higher right so if you go via any bank right the charges are higher right that's the thing thank you sir thank you no thanks yep the nish monashaji yeah hi action so my question is like you shadow views on actual things right so these companies like international companies which is listed in India like actual him to earnestly all these companies is taking some percentage of the money outside of India as the part of royal taste right so is it better to take some positions in international markets rather than being taking this position in India what do you know so for example you never is a parent group company of industinian level now you never get as primarily in the us now in the us the population itself is shrinking okay and on top of that there is 100% penetration of these type of products so the growth rate of you know level is very slow in the us there is no point in investing in you know level compared to industinian level which is the india specific which is here the growth is increasing right I mean the income levels are rising right on per capita basis etc so it's not a saturated market so to say okay in the us the growth is coming from tech not from domestic consumption yep thank you all right monashaji you know on the nse stocks I believe sebi has put some delay on it and they have kind of said that it's going to be further delayed by two years and you know because there's some discrepancies so the reason I'm asking you is because I'm about to buy some of the nse listed squares so I mean you know listed shares so I want to know whether I mean is that an issue or should I wait like you know will the price you know correct sure or you know should I buy like in batches or I don't know how to get about this right good question so honestly like whenever we are buying unlisted companies we are already going with the intent of holding them for a long term at least we have a five-year plan on it right the reason is very simple that a stock like nse will not come to the market and not run us okay so it is going to run up it's very common sense because people will say it's a monopoly stock government so they will anyways chase that right so and especially after like l i c ipodibacle right where the price corrected downwards government is now very careful right you have to think from like their point of view also they cannot like bring like public companies in the market where retail investors are taking a loss okay so honestly like they just have to launch it at a proper time if you're buying unlisted are there chances that you will you know the stock will correct maybe a little bit right but not much to be honest right can the ipodible delayed by two three years yes there's a high chance that might happen if you're not comfortable with holding nse and unlisted space for two three years and don't buy okay so final is investment thesis on that right so i mean just invest like maybe 30 40% of money now whatever you want to invest hold it for three four years it's a solid company monopoly company in our industry which where the profit margins are huge okay BSEs and examples it will get pegged to BSEs stock performance so from that angle right i mean the risk is kind of justified but yes i mean you need to have like a three four year viewpoint on it there is no red flag to be honest like i mean it's a government company like i mean what scam but they do right so honestly like it's it's it's the risk is low right and it's it's they are very conservative right okay thank you yeah Parish shikha hi actually the 20 20 points which you are taught to pick up the stock is i mean it's very helpful so one question i mean recently started using ticker tape and some other websites they have some screen as like 52 week low and 52 week high and there are some pro screen as like moment on stress and some nearing break out so believe it help us i mean i didn't buy help us to like save some time and is it recommended so problem that happens is that they lump all the stocks together right for example the way you would buy something like noama is a very different stock compared to Asian paints Asian paints is a very different stock compared to indigo paints right which i explained right that for example it's completely okay to buy like you are buying Asian paints because sorry you are buying indigo paints because they're expecting the market cap to go 3x you're buying Asian paints because you believe that the company is going to make consistent cash flows and give you 15% CGR so the investment thesis on both those stocks is very very different okay so please wait for the last tomorrow this will get more traffic okay okay okay okay so you cannot automate stock investing i've tried doing it okay so it doesn't work just to pick the stocks there will be list so many right just to go through the mind to some fundamental analysis before going through them but there's a simplest way you can do it you have to apply human brain power here trust AI can help okay so i'm helping you integrate like AI with like you know basic structured framework thinking it's got it thank you well analogy yes thanks for the insightful thank you you're giving my question is basically there are reference to capital rotation yes i mean if you do multiple capital rotations yeah we tend to end up in a margin erosion due to taxes and brokerage fees yeah so what is what's your take on that do do do cap become a UI tax resident and do capital rotation us you'll pay zero okay close to zero percent tax okay so that's one okay that's generally the second question is basically I mean you you know you keep giving the commentary when to buy and when to sell yes but I think we sometimes we tend to miss out on the buy signal the sell signal is there any way that you can you know specify your stock especially with the US the US stocks uh you know i anyways will post it on whatsapp right so whatever I'm doing right so that's just keep a track of whatsapp channels second is that I'm hoping that after this course you will have you will develop the acumen to do the analysis yourself but at least we'll get more confidence and if you read like my commentary for the next one on the whatsapp channels then it will give you more fundamental insight right because the goal the course does not stop like tomorrow right I mean then you know we'll stay active for like 365 days on the group and then yeah and that itself will add like a lot of value and practice over time right so there is no shortcut to learning investing right I mean it will only happen with time thank you yeah thank you yes thank you so I just want to ask that currently I'm on 30% lost on my investment and more please talks are from finance finance background means so it's like that so shall I read with book the lost and reinvest in another stock or please wait tomorrow please wait till tomorrow I'll talk about this how went to sell okay thank you thank ah Ghanchan Rajesh. So an extension to the AI question so currently there are a lot of tools in the markets which are sort of claiming that they will give us the recommendations for stocks based on some AI analysis and AI is real right I mean AI is definitely going to have profound impact on many areas of our lives so I mean would those tools really be of any help or it's good for research I mean you cannot make like you can't automate it AI will automate things okay so for example faster view editing it's a computer program right AI can't factor in human element right for example most of the stock buying selling will become sentiment driven then you have to understand the psychology of buying and selling right that will be more important right having your matching it to your portfolio is more important so how will it give you like personalized advice looking at your portfolio that's going to be a challenge even when AI asks you to explain your investment thesis and if you're an uneducated investor how will you explain it right so I mean that's a problem it's like you going to an investment advisor right now an investment advisor asks you to tell me your goals of investing I'd say like goals but I'll tell you what's right so just tell me like where my money will double right that's a simple thing that you will say so the point being that without being like an educated customer you can't use AI AI will help educated investors AI will not help like dumb investors I mean it's sort of a phobia if we don't use those tools would be like behind nothing like that I mean honestly like I don't even know about those tools like leave it right on YouTube okay yeah she fell on the action my actions are actually like my two years say I'm in investment so the rest of your points of the regular shares that you consider I'll be able to listen to a lot of things but I'm basically here my next question is not it's about this session I'm in the first time understood her so I'm just shares so I'm just sharing so I'm just sharing so I know most of this is all NSC but I'm generally saying how do I do it I'll cover this right I'll cover this tonight or tomorrow maybe like so try it I'm mostly I'll cover it okay thank you okay okay yes action thank you for the time I've been following you for the last couple of years and I have been able to understand the investment part of it the problem which I'm facing is capital rotation in the last one year I've specifically done a few attempts now for example I'll take two examples from your learnings one is Kotak Mahindra back one is Aavas and one is Vedanta now investment entry point of view is something which I have very clear now I'm able to do analysis very well I would say 50 60% the conviction to exit rightly for example Kotak I have picked up at 1600 1620 something like that and right now it is 2100 change now it's a very good confidence that 2024 percentage growth in six months or less than one year kind of a scenario now the conviction is not getting developed in the exit part of it very specifically now wait what should I focus on right now on this subject well very simple don't be greedy okay so for example if you're media profits and if the charts tell you it's over valued it's over valued sell it move on and don't try the stock okay so this is the hardest thing so it's more about like greed that you know what Kotak Mahindra is hold it for example like I'm not saying that Kotak Mahindra is over valued don't take it that way right it's probably not but let's work with the assumption that you find Kotak Mahindra to be over valued what should you do you should sell it okay you have made out 25% returns in six months you feel Kotak Mahindra is inherently over valued you sell it now if it keeps going up 2400 now that 300 to be national losses what you will 99% of investors get bothered with so that's not you cannot perfectly time the exit okay it's about broadly being correct most of the times now that is what people don't get about investing for example people who are crying about their portfolio right now are the ones who did not sell their small gap and mid gap stocks that's one all their profits got wiped out some people who were extremely greedy they bought small and mid gap stocks last year and now they are sitting at like minus 30% 35 40% loss on that portfolio okay so the point is that stock investing is human nature I can't make you like a good human okay so if you are the most smaller I don't know what your stocks are that I don't know I don't like it for example let it be right so for example I sold no I sold it profit my see profit my portfolio is giving 15% if I make more money well and good right if I'm making like a I target like 15% C.A.G.A.R I bring my skillset up to a level where I'm making 15% C.A.G.A.R on 3 to 5 year basis okay if I make more I thank God that God has given me more money I feel blessed and I'm more out okay and I live my life in joy my life okay now there could be other category of people will say you are 21 and last year they will be depressed with 25% returns also so the point is that this comes down to you in nature and I can't make you a better human okay so you have to like just go like meet some Baba and all that stuff right so I mean then figure out like type of a person you are and yeah find that wisdom that's what I'll say okay I can just help you understand like what undervalued okay so yeah yeah Tafiq Subash so once again it's me I have another goods in for drying trend line trend line I'm also in trading which time frame should we consider one week or one month or anything else is see if you are if you are a long term investor like for example if you are buying let's say Hindustan universe stock today so then you need to consider like a monthly time frame right on a five year basis if you are considering it for like let's say two to three years basis or less than one year basis then daily right if you are considering like let's say two to three year basis then weekly okay so that's how it typically goes thank you thank you yeah Subash yeah good afternoon git my name is Subhash Agraval I'm by profession I am chartered accountant I have here somewhere regarding small guess yes investing through a small guess yeah and I did something it says it is better than mutual fund can we explain something about this wall case no so small cases are basically type of a mutual fund it's not better or worse than mutual funds honestly it just slices the mutual fund differently in the sense that for example if you want to invest in rural theme now small case can give access to that thing okay which you might not be able to get it on mutual funds but honestly like there is not much difference between small case and mutual funds it's one and the same wherever you feel comfort level just do it I personally like like mutual funds because you don't have to track it then right I mean you just buy good right whenever you find bulk opportunities wherever you don't want to track much you just buy it keep it that money is done then you don't track that portfolio at all you just track your stock portfolio and you're done otherwise if you mix it then it becomes like a slight issue to in terms of exiting the stocks it's that's my personality but honestly like there is zero difference between the two actually what I hear in a small case they rotate capital monthly they're rotate stocks monthly that's not needed you rotate capital when it's supposed to be rotated when you see something overvalued it might happen in after 30 years I don't know like so and maybe things will not become overvalued for the next 30 years so doing monthly rotation does not lead to anything good to be honest right so there's no time to do it okay thank you okay guys so I'll see you in the evening right awesome I hope you enjoyed the session right and most of your straight back thanks so much and cool I'll see you like in a few hours I think three hours later okay so please double check the class timing right I might misspeak or something when you will show up later I don't do that just take the zoom in right and we'll pick it up from there okay all right take care bye