Transcript for: Live Session VII - Investment thesis When and how to sell and book profits Part 1 -
Transcription Date: 2025-04-01 23:47:12.322424
==================================================

 Okay, I actually good morning, good morning. Yeah, good morning actually. I should I have missed the Q and A session in the last. Last hour. So I need to ask the question today. Actually, we have talked about the portfolio building, right? Yes. And in that portfolio building, what my assumption is that the you have said the 18 points in how to select the stocks. And also, you know, a lot of videos. Yes, and now all of your videos you have said about the 5 percentage cap for the every stock, right? So if I keep 5 cap 5 percentage cap for around the same, for example, 15 large cap stocks and 5 5 mid cap stocks that cap that 2.5 percentage and 10 small cap stocks, 1.5 percentage. What is the opinion about this? That's a personal poll. I cannot say like I mean, for example, it's like the goal is to eat like 110 grams of protein a day. Now, how you do it? If you have vegetarian, you have your own diet. If you are non-vegetarian, you have your own diet. If you are a seafoodian, then you are, you have your own diet. There are different categories of vegetarian. For example, they will only eat like curry, right? They will eat egg and still be vegetarians, right? They will be like, you know, they will eat like whatever like non-vegetarian, but only eat curry and that's why I cannot comment on it. It really is like depends on how you want to structure that portfolio. I can give you broad rules and accordingly, you need to adjust according to your preferences. Cool. Awesome. So guys, I'll take the question towards the end, right? And we'll start. We'll start. Like in today, everything will come together. Hopefully, right? And let me like do two things, right? So on this session, let me do like two things. One is that I will just deepen this, right? These seven-aid type of stocks, right? I'll tell you a little bit about unlisted investing as well, right? My thesis behind it. And I'll give you a quick intro, right there. And that's one. Second, we will speak about when to sell. So this is the primary agenda. So I will take you through some FAQs that you guys keep on asking me. That okay, when should I say, I'm on 20% profit, 40% loss, this is that stuff. And then I'll share like 10 points as to specifics of selling. Okay, so this is like, hopefully I'll be able to cover on in the next couple of hours. Okay, awesome. So let's start, right? And yesterday we spoke about and just to quickly help you understand where we stand. So three types of analysis. One is called as macro, right? Second is called as business or fundamental analysis. And third is called as technical analysis, where we look at charts and graphs and make calls. All these three things work together. Okay, this is the most important thing that I learned as an investor. It's not as if that you can be a pure macro investor, right? That big, big trend story. And then you don't look at like at whatever price you are buying. It doesn't work that way, right? You have to understand how to analyze businesses because if you purely just work on technicals, for example, 95% of the traders cannot even make FD returns. Okay, so that's mathematically, this is not a sound strategy. Okay, so this is one, right? This is like one part of finance slash investing. The second part of finance and investing has got nothing to do with finance or investing. It has to do with the type of a human you are. You must not have to do that. I will not be surprised. For example, do grab a small loop, jump right. So for example, as long as I'm like buying at sensual price, temporary losses are okay. Right? So if you are not a real investor, you are not a real investor. Right? See, think rationally, right? There are like 6,000, 8,000 listed stocks. You cannot catch rally in everything. Okay, you'll go mad. Otherwise, you'll just keep on running like, you know, morning to evening, try to chase rallies. If a new slash happens in your front, you will get excited about that stock. Someone will say that I bought Bitcoin today. My Bitcoin went up by 200%. Then you will fail for more. So if you are not a sorted person in your brain, you cannot be a good investor. Okay, so that's like the second part is very important. Yesterday I said that you have to pass, pass, pass, pass, enter engineering. Whatever like it, there are like so many things to it. Whatever feels best. Okay. People ask me, do you do it? No. Okay, so I do this. So I tomorrow I'm going jet skiing. Okay, someone will come and go. I do all this type of stuff. Okay, I don't do all this. Okay, so I don't even meditate. Okay, so it's like being clear. Okay, so whatever give you clarity, you do that. Okay, whatever you enjoy. So, okay, so that's that's what I would say, right? And all these four things come together. And accordingly, it makes you as an investor. And you define your risk appetite. That's the most important bit. Now comes that. Okay, fine. Great. Awesome. Right. And now what do I need to do is that fine. You have told me that I can buy like number one. Number one, I can buy like index. Okay. Number two, I can buy mutual funds. Number three, I can buy stocks directly. Now what are the primary advantages disadvantages of this? Of mixing these three strategies, right? For example, can you be a pure index investor and make 12 to 15% returns? If the or more specifically, can you generate an alpha of 3% 4% absolutely? Yes. Okay, if you're 100% just index investor, you can do that. What's the advantage? The advantages that you save massive commissions? For example, I typically do not invest in mutual funds. All my mutual funds are index funds. Okay, for example, nifty 50 is an index. Private bank ETF slash private bank mutual funds are an index. There is not much difference between ETF versus mutual funds. There are small, small differences. But again, we are splitting here if we tried to understand everything, right? People keep on debating. The ETF is not here. I am mutual fund doesn't matter much, right? The idea is again that to eat like 100 grams of protein to retain your muscle mass. That's what we are focusing on. Okay. Now whichever mode you do that, okay? This is important, right? I would rather prefer this over this. Now you'll say that no, my active felonate income mutual fund gives me like this percent alpha, that percent alpha. See guys, I'm not debating that. If you feel confident to that, you can be a 100% mutual fund investor. No problem. The primary problem that I see with mutual fund is exit. Okay. Problem is that most of the mutual fund investors do not exit mutual funds ever. Now that is where the problem lies because if we become like a market like Japan, and I had shown you earlier last week that Japan market was like this that between 1990 to 20, 24, 80 gave how much returns 0%. Okay. So you made 0% returns. Now if you are an SIP doer and mutual fund and if this situation comes, for whatever reason, I'm not saying that this will come, but it could come potentially, right? And if you have no understanding of the fact that okay, you know what boss I'm here, right? And this is not working out for whatever reason, whatever macro changes have happened, then you can't revise your investment thesis because you do not have the knowledge, acumen to do it. Okay. And that is where the problem is that you will get stuck. And what does this do? This does this destroys your long term financial plans. You're getting it why because you started your retirement planning at 30 assuming that you know what I'll get like 12, 13%, 15% run up. But what ends up happening is that after 30 years of investing or whatever, right? You lose, right? Because what I get is if you. Good investors, profit booking is very easy for everyone. Okay. If you're sitting on 20% 30% profit, you can easily book it. But can you book 30% loss? No. Then let me give you practical example. For example, people who started their SIP in the year 2024, almost all those SIPs are down by 10%. Okay. In 2025. Now you're sitting in 2025 and you're saying, you know what? Minus 10%. So I should buy more because if I exit, then I have to book like real loss. So this you will not do. So you'll buy more in 2025. So your portfolio went investment went from this to this. Okay. Now if for some reason, we are on this downward sloping trajectory. Now you're at 15% loss and you keep on having like, you know, losses after losses. And then at one point, it becomes like a nightmarish scenario that you're sitting on 30% loss on your portfolio, not individual stock on your portfolio. And then you don't exit. Okay. So this is the problem primarily that this is the first key problem that I see in mutual fund that selling becomes really complicated. Because number one, the incentives are very wrong that you do not learn anything about selling. You don't follow the stock market. You don't follow any indicators. You don't study macros. You just leave it outsource all your hard work, all your hard and money to a person X. And you let them make calls. Okay. And their defense will be that C was market fell by like 15% I generated like minus 14. So I'm still better. Okay. So you say, I'm about to say, this is the first key problem. Okay. The second key problem, which is a much more realistic problem, I would say. In fact, the first was also important. The second key problem is taxation. Now this is something that knows advisor will tell you right because they themselves haven't migrated abroad and have no understanding of how taxes are structured outside the world. So they will just their entire working space will be India specific. Okay. What is happening is that till 2018 until 2017 the LTCG long term capital gains tax on equities was zero. Okay. Then it was 10% okay. Then it went to 12.5% by 2023. I think right. And there was a sudden jump of 25% on LTCG taxes. Okay. Now you say, yeah, as you go, we're at what's a big deal right? I mean, from 10% it went to 12.5%. So what's a big deal? It's only 2.5%. But do you realize how much your retirement or plus has to expand by to compensate for this 25% increase in LTCG? Right. If you do the mathematical calculation on this, your head will spin. Okay. Because as humans, we are not wired to do compounded return calculation. Okay. So this is a lot right. You at least have to expand your portfolio by 30% because of this. Okay. So this is problem one problem. One of two is the precedence. Now what is the meaning of precedence? Presidents means that for example, if you're a lawyer, you would understand the concept better. Uh, that here, because the taxes have gone up from 10 to 12.5, what's stopping it from going from 12.5 to 15%. Nothing. What's stopping it to go from 15% to 20%. What's stopping it from going to slab? Okay. So this is the precise problem that when you get stuck here and you have no understanding of how to manage your finances and understand how to cut profits, restructure yourself. Then 30 years of your hard work, you will work till the year like you know when you're 22, 23, you'll start working in every month, you're working for your mutual fund manager giving them a sip and you have no control about when to exit. And number two, you have no control over. Um, the, uh, the tax treatment. Okay. So I'm not trying to dishon India and all that stuff. I'm beyond that stage. I don't, I'm not a taxpayer there. So I'll not criticize. Right. It's your call. What do you want to do? Um, I had every year I used to pay like crores and taxes. Right. And I was happy doing it till that time. It looked fair. But once your retirement starts to get hit because if you genuinely ask me a question that I said, how much money do you need? I'm trying to retire in India. The answer is I don't know. Okay. Because technically, if the LTCG goes to like theoretical exercise, if the LTCG goes to 90%. Then I can work all my life, create like 1000 crore purpose, 8 to the end of it. I'll only get 10 grams. Okay. Whatever. Right. So that's the problem. So theoretically it can happen. Okay. So everyone understands this. Um, okay. Final point is, so this is something now I'll tell you like in evening class, like having how to, uh, what are like some key things that I will think as an Indian tax resident, right to sort of rework this situation. Right. So I don't want to paint a picture of hopelessness. Right. There is hope if you're smart. Okay. Because money is always made on relative basis. If everyone is making one crore profit or if sargar prints like one crore. Or a person and give it to give it gives it to anyone. There is zero improvement in your life because every one wattage. Okay. So price of everything will also go. Okay. Money is made when you're generating an alpha. Okay. So I hope this point is geared to every. Okay. So okay. Awesome. Now what's the first key lesson, right, is that what I would do. Right. So the first thing that I would do is that I would learn index investing. Okay. What does this mean? We have already covered on the course that what are indexes. For example, right now we are looking at private bank ETFs. Okay. We spoke about NASDAQ. Okay. We spoke about S&P 500. We spoke about nifty 50. We spoke about small cap 250. We spoke about mid cap 150. Right. So all these are primary index that you could consider mine from time to time. Many a times, for example, NASDAQ might be overvalued nifty 50 might be undervalued. So if you are doing that months S.I.P. Okay. So for example, let's say that every month you have to invest 10,000 by NASDAQ overvalued. Right. So don't invest there. And if 250 undervalued. So pick this start month. That's it. That's cool. Not a problem. Okay. That's very important. Number two is you must learn at least the basics of capital rotation. Because what this capital rotation allows you to do. See, think about this way that the market is at 25 K. Okay. And it rotates between 22 K and 30 K. Okay. Hypothetically. So there is an 8,000 range that you can trade on. If you are booking profit here, okay. Then whatever profit you book, let's say that you started with 10 lakhs. It went up to like, you know, 1 1 5th. So 20% so it goes to 12 lakhs. You booked. Let's say 4 lakh profit. Okay. 4 lakh profit. Okay. Now this 4 lakh can be reinvested here. Okay. And if you rotate capital twice in a year, then you can make like, you know, this, this really add like this puts you a category of 15 to 18%. Okay. So let me quickly explain you the difference between like, you know, making 12% returns versus 15, 16% returns. It's not as if that you need to do something magical. Okay. You start making 15, 16% returns on your portfolio when you capital rotate. Second key point or second simple point is that when you don't buy overvalued, for example, if you're only buying some kind of price correction or time correction, automatically this 15, 16% will start happening because you'll generate 3% alpha on the market. Okay. If you do not, if you sell overvalued stuff, rotate it. Right. So this, this, these are like two pillars of investing and this will only happen when you have a range of options that you're considering. Okay. And it is 100% okay. Just to stick to these. That's it. You don't even need to buy like a 7th. That's it. Okay. Here. Okay. And some ETFs in the US, I'll speak about in the evening class when I teach US stock investing, but to cut the long story short, your first step to becoming a good investor is to learn index investing and capital rotation, which I've already taught, but I will cover some more points today. Okay. But I hope that this first pillar is clear to every. Okay. Second key point is that then once you are through these two stages, right. And you want to expand your investment universe. What is the meaning of expanding investment universe. See, right now your investment universe is this. But this is a very narrow universe. You want to access Google Amazon Apple, HUL, etc. Then you have to go about certain types of stocks. Right. So these are 810 types of stocks slash investment assets that you can pick. Okay. Every one with me. Now the mistake that we make is that we don't learn. And this is the hardest thing to learn and investing, which took me years to learn is that when we think of stocks, we think of all the stocks function. Similarly, for example, there is zero difference between HUL and you know, HDFC bank and you know, unlisted stocks and like you know listed stocks or like, you know, SMEs and all that. No, so there is huge difference between buying like unlisted stocks and there is a huge difference buying. HUL, which is a consistent compounder stock. There is a huge difference buying something like coal India, which is a cyclical stock. Okay. There is a huge difference buying a consistent story, which is like, you know, sort of falling down, etc, etc. What we end up doing is that we keep on tracking FII idea. Okay. This is useless. Okay. FII idea is big ticket game. They are not going to send you an email that actually today we are going to buy like 1000 crores of equities. They will just buy it. And by the time you realize that they have bought it, the stocks are already so why are you tracking like FII idea data. Okay. It's just a macro point like tracking unemployment or tracking GDP data and all that. That is fine. But you can't copy trade like FII is. Everyone understands. Okay. Because the moment someone buys it, for example, Warren Buffett sold Apple. Now he sold Apple. He did inform you. Like, I mean, then it will come after news like after two days or whatever. And sometimes you don't even get to know that. Right. So tracking like investment holdings makes you sound really smart. But it's not a practical applicable strategy. So, please now we are like job doers. Right. We have like full time jobs. We don't have time for all this bullshit. Okay. See, you know, CNBC, I was there. And you know, I know signal with boldly and blinding me. Which boldly. Usually there's no point. Okay. Whatever practically you can do. You do that. Okay. There is zero benefits of watching news. I do not watch any news. Any business channel and all that. Yes. Okay. So there is no point. Right. Stop markets are forward looking. I'm an analysis girl. What is it's like running and owning equity in a business and my background in angel investing has helped me. Right. So I've not invested like crazy mode of companies. I've invested in five so far. I had like three successful exits so far. Right. So. One of the companies you might know is went wealth. Right. So I accepted my angel investment in that my money grew like five X on that. Right. I'm an angel investor. Right. So I pick like select companies, right, which I understand the business model of and I do angel investing. So that allows me to get like a. And mostly around finance, right. Because that's my area, which I understand intuitively. And this is something that I enjoy. Right. So I invest in either a tech of finance. So if any of my students are building any company, happy to like sort of support wherever I can. Okay. I'm not going to buy a lot of it in. In credit not right now because in credit will IPO soon. Right. So in credit finance right. It is already a profitable unicorn. So very few companies in India profitable unicorns. In credit is one. And the base company there or the subsidiary company that is in credit money, which is again a solid company. Right. So they are doing well. They don't plan on exiting any of it. In fact, just like an interesting information that Charu Khan and Gauri Khan are also investors in credit money. So they have also paid like angel investment stake. Okay. So whenever like IPO news will come all this will come up. Okay. So yeah. Yeah, you're excited. Right. Yeah. Actually, like in credit money. So we also invest like right now. Okay. So this is exactly the fourth pillar that I was speaking about like you have for inner engineering work or all that. So this you have to calm down your nerves. Okay. So you have to make decisions as per where you are right in your career. Okay. Okay. So awesome. So I hope that this is clear. Right. At least the context is clear to everyone. Now the moment you go to like individual stocks, where do we start? Okay. So I would recommend that you start with consistent compounded type of companies. The easiest way to buy them is to buy under 200 day moving average. Okay. This is what now what yesterday I'd explain you right and I've shown you a few examples for example, let's go on screener. How do you apply 200 day moving average? So what are consistent stocks right where the business model is very clear. For example, Hindustan Unilever's business model is very, very clear. It's a mature company. You're buying a mature company. Okay. And here all you have to do is that for example, look at how the stock typically behaves. Click click on this max. This black line is called as 200 DMA. Okay. So I'm just clicking this. You will see this 200 day moving average line and you can study the last 20 30 years data of the company. You will always see that company touches this bounces up touches this bounces up. Sometimes you get opportunities to buy it below 200 DMA. For example, here, here, here, here, here, here, here, here and here. Okay. So here it is consolidating this stock. Okay. So therefore you are buying a time correction also you are buying it below 200 DMA also. Will you make like what is the downside of these this investing you will it's unlikely that you will see another 15% drop on this stock. And there is a very good chance that it will hit its previous peak. So for example, what was the previous peak. This is like maybe like 2100. And this is almost 3000. So you trade this rate. So for example, if you see a channel for me or something like so for example, this is the first. Resistance point. Okay. So what technical be they can have a day. I'm not I'm just sort of fleet telling you just to save time. So this becomes. Like your exit point. So this is like maybe 20% it's a part survey of profit. But I'll just be up right. So this is something that will give you confidence also. So this is where you start your individual investing. Okay. Whenever you are looking after consistent compounded type of companies. Now only primary mistake that you can make is what that you buy them over valued as long as you're not buying HDFC bank Asian paints. Bajaj finance. It you will Nestle type of companies. TCS all these companies at an over valued price you will be fine. Okay. Now am I saying that invest all your Jama Pungji in like you know, Hindustan universe absolutely not maximum limit always applies on individual assets, which is 5%. Okay. How much can you invest right now you can start with 50% capital but leave room for now. Okay. So for example, and this is ballpark. Now I cannot give you like a golden rule that you can all do it in like four tranches and all that stuff. Not always. Right now it is quite discounted. So I will say that do like 50% 60% of whatever intended capital is. For example, if you are portfolio is let's say one crore. 5 lakhs is the maximum capital that should go on individual stock. So 5 lakhs or 60% is 3 lakhs. So 3 lakhs you can put tomorrow. Okay. If you feel like right. So this is clear to everyone. Okay. So these are consistent compounded stocks. You can easily buy them not an issue. Okay. Then comes second type of stocks which you should and I'll just highlight this whatever I'm covering. Okay. So this is one that we are coming to. Now then comes. So that's all the time. Yeah, then comes the second type of stocks which are thematic in investing now thematic investing is also very easy to understand for example you work in IT jobs right hand for example hypothetically or you work in manufacturing. Whichever industry you are in or wherever you are doing a job you will understand at least that industry for example, let's say that you're in software. What trends do you see you will see that you can number one. Large language models are picking up and a lot of automation will happen even when it comes to coding. Okay. So a lot of software jobs are going to decline, especially back and software jobs. If you are building LLMs. If you are building like commercial applications of AI then maybe like developers will pick up or maybe developers will go on Web 3.2 and all that right. So you understand like all these intricacies of that particular industry. So which theme are you picking you are picking tech theme. Okay. Now let's say that you also want to study like finance theme. Now is this your area of expertise. No right. Will you be able to understand housing finance companies AMC hospitals all that stuff. No. Okay. You have to basically make like macro investments. What is the easiest way of macro investing very simple. This is your GDP growth rate. Let's say it is at 6.5%. What do you need to do? You need to pick industries which are growing faster than the GDP. Okay. Just avoid companies which grow. Lower than the GDP. Right. For example, 2.5% is manufacturing. Lugge a broad of manufacturing manufacturing and make an India this scale India. I think I've planted a lot of makeup. I've just got void all that nonsense. Okay. If the industry itself is not growing faster than the GDP. It's better to just buy 50.15. That's like common sense. Okay. Why would you even get into all that PS off like you know identify like small manufacturer and all that stuff. Okay. Why would you get into all that nonsense is because you are greedy. Okay. So you want to double your triple your money 5x your money and like dumb companies can you actually 5x 10x your money in such companies. Yes. Right. I mean, took the job. I'm not saying that right. But generally as a system you can't invest if you're figuring out a system that you can this is something that I'll teach my kids or I want to build a portfolio for 60 70 years. You can't do that as a system. You can't keep on like going and exploring like slower than GDP growth companies and figuring out like hidden gems there. It's impossible to do it. Okay. Lower a book. Right. You know diamonds in the dust and Waggara Waggara and portfolio. Right. So the point is that even book writers who have met like 50 like founders and all that to write those books. The themselves are not able to beat like fine like hidden gems. So how will you do it? Okay. Answer is you will not. Okay. Now. Right. He's like, you know, grown is portfolio from 50 to 500 by dad. As I'm the same. Right. So there's no point. Right. For example, when Mr. Akish Dunjian, while I started investing in 1990s. Indian index was close to nothing. Right. Now in 2025 the market is fairly mature. Now if something is already big, it's like you buying Apple earthly. Okay. And Apple computers early you buying Bitcoin in 2016. You buying like, you know, whatever Solana very early you buy. Mattik is very early. So if you're early, you buy Dubai real estate in like 2009. Okay. If you're early, any game, of course you're going to make money right and you will become a legend in that right. So Mr. Akish Dunjian, Wala Radha Krishna, Mani Ram Dev Agrawal, all these people actually made their wealth. Not because there's some excellent stock because they made their wealth because they started that asset class very early. So you're getting it. I'm not missing on them. Okay. I'm just telling you a reality. Okay. So their investment strategy. Do not apply today. That's how I'll simply say if you don't trust me, there is a book. It's called Intelligent Investor. Please go and order it. Right. And read it. Okay. And then you tell me like what did you understand from it. And you'll go to sleep after reading like 15 20 pages. It's written by Benjamin Graham, who is the founder of like CFA Institute. Right. So very good book. So the applications, the things do not apply anymore. Okay. So you can read it. Right. I mean, there's no, it's a good academic book to read. Right. But practically investing has changed quite a lot. Right. So the principles that you will learn there because think about it this way when that book was written, we had factory model of running things. And you will for a business to scale, they had to put physical factories post 2000 to scale a business. You require a tech. So that has been the fundamental shift in the business landscape to begin with. Right. So I'm not again criticizing any book. I'm just telling you the reality. Right. Of what's what's happening. If you read outdated material, it will kind of you can definitely pick some points from there. I'm not like you know, sort of saying that you will not learn anything, but the point is that it's not relevant. Right. So similarly, like do not get swayed by what people are saying. Now it's a research oriented research driven market. Mostly psychologically and sentimentally driven. Okay. So that's where you need to start thinking a little bit. Okay. So I hope that this point is clear that thematic investing. You can start learning. Right. I will share some points on wisdom, hatch community, etc, etc. And now you will learn more. But here the first key common sense, I call trick. And again, you don't need to trust my word. Right. I'm just speaking like, you know, from a from an information giving perspective. Let's see, according to me, something like AMC's hospitals, banks in India are going to grow faster than GDP. That has happened in the past. And this will continue to happen for a foreseeable future. Now if for some reason, India's GDP starts to shrink or if India's GDP goes on a poor path. Okay. Then will I be exiting this? Yes. Okay. But as of now, these are faster growth industries compared to the average GDP. So it kind of if you're picking thematic themes, it kind of makes sense to pick these over something like or loan giving business. Okay. So loan giving business credit card business. So all these are themes that are growing faster than the GDP of our country. Okay. On the flip side, what is not growing rural doesn't grow that fast. Okay. And again, if you go through those 17 18 points, again, you will realize that why rural themes do not grow really fast because people have less paying capacity. Right. That's a problem. Right. Number two, what is not growing really fast, right. Manufacturing is not growing that fast. Why is manufacturing not growing? What is the primary trigger? It's a very simple thing, right. The answer is where you tell me if any of you run like a manufacturing oriented business, government not investing is not a problem. Right. What is like manufacturing manufacturing means that you take capital, okay. You take land labor and capital. These three things and you create some widget. Okay. Or you create some good out of it. Okay. Now in India land is crazy expensive because of corruption labor is unskilled. Right. This is not me saying this is generally how it is. Right. I mean the quality of anything. Right. So that's that's problem. Okay. So land is expensive labor is not skilled in capital and capital is very expensive in India capital means that if I have to set up a factory in Gwalior, right. The city I'm from. Then to get a loan, I will get a loan at 14, 15% to do that business. Now if an on top of that, get GST. Okay. So the first time I'll make like 20 like plus profits. So there is nothing left for me. So I would I like you know, sort of take that capital and best. Okay. So it makes no sense and there are bunch of other things like you know, for the corruption or rate, tape is on and you know, who's the knee and all that. I'll give you like a very simple example. Okay. So for example, people keep on asking me that you know what you're cribbing about India. This is that stuff. See, I provided like 20 jobs in go up right by setting up Airbnb's. And very simple business model. Go is a tourism state. Right. And I have a few properties there. And I'm also building a resort with my investors. I'm nothing to center. So I'm not like I'm just telling you the story. Okay. So basically that's a resort. You want to put a layer of hospitality. Now the problem is that the moment we start anything right from procuring a license to doing any construction, adding additional pool, adding additional gym. Anything that we do right we have to pay a bribes. That's how it goes. Okay. So like right from like local panchayat to everything. So that inflates the cost of doing business. And once you have set up a legitimate business, you still have to keep paying 18% GST. Okay. Now are there ways to tackle this. Yes, there are now that's a separate conversation altogether. But what I'm trying to tell you is that even to set up a business which will give like let's say 30 40 more jobs in the economy. It's a lot of pain for like small business owners. Okay. And it's not as if that I'm minting like billions out of it or like millions out of it. It's like you know decent business, which creates an additional source of income for my investors and all that. And it provides like good employment. It's a small business. These type of business exactly are the ones that actually adds jobs to the economy. Okay. It the units are not ready. Okay. And no, you'll not get any discount price. Honestly, like guys, I do like good work. And please don't ask for discounts. And so. I mean, I mean, I'm in fact, bravo right. So I mean, all of all my courses and all that right. So the point is there is no point like, you know, for example, people will people who ask for discount, they'll make things for free. And then if even if you offered for free, then they'll create like noise. Okay. So there is no point. Okay. So yeah. Okay. So any is that's on a lighter. But I hope you got the point right that. Okay. Export oriented. If you are buying any company, please always check. Can this really be competitive? So am I buying any export oriented business in India, for example, Tata Motors. Do you think that on a long term, five seven year basis, it will compete with B by D. It will compete with Tesla. We test love, I mean, you know, Trump was the mother, you know, right. He caro tariff, not my watch. Right. So then, you had to bring Tesla to India or whatever. Right. Now if Tesla starts operating in India versus like, let's say Tata Motors, now a lot of people will migrate to this kind of Tesla is able to lower its, you know, pricing or whatever. Same might happen with B by D, right. And all that right. So here you have to be competitive right classic case example that I keep giving us that she during Holy Diwali, we buy Chinese Pichkari, we buy Chinese lights. Why? And China, I don't think China celebrates the valley. The point is that whoever is the best or most competitive manufacturer by competitive manufacturer needs who can create a product at the lowest possible price by ensuring efficiency and giving a certain return on quality. Those products automatically get sold because the supply chains are very mature. Okay. So they will figure out a way to go to country X, for example, many people are believing that B by D might be banned in the US might might not be because then you are you run the entire risk. See. On the surface, it looks like that B by D will not go into the US because China because Trump will put X percent tariff. Now what do you think like China, China is not going to do anything. China will also put like a amount of tariff on some other good that the US is sending to China. So again, China and US will come at the back end and say, let's do the same thing. So then they will say, fine, okay. So then they will both drop tariffs and that's how it will go. Otherwise it's a it's a war and in a war, everyone gets destroyed. Okay. You can adopt like Kim Jong Un strategies, right, which is called as being a madman and flinging your gun in front of everyone. You know, I'm going to be new clear what I'm the one right and all that. So the world is scared and they did. Yeah, I'm not going to be a bit of a person. Right. So I'm not going to be a bit of a person. Right. So that's how they think of Kim Jong Un that he's a mad person who is slinging the gun. But what's the only card that Kim Jong Un has pressing the nuclear button right the moment he does it, he's screwed right the entire country will be new. The very next minute. Okay. So that's his only bargaining chip. Okay. So Trump is also flinging the gun, but he's not a mad person person. He's smart. Okay. He'll scare. He'll try to bring like and buy hook or croak by carat or stick approach a lot of businesses to the US. Some countries will give in to get us some kind of a thing and negotiate. Right. That of course they are going to negotiate on tariffs. But if you are going against the big wigs like China right where lot with each other. The supply chains will play and the cost comparator or the best manufacturer of a product is going to win. That's it. Okay. So that's how it goes. Okay. Therefore, like I'm putting like 10% of my bets on Chinese stock market right how do buy a Chinese stock market all that maybe I'll speak in the evening time. Okay. But 10% for me is China 5% for me right now is UAE right so these are cash rich economies. So it kind of makes sense from a global perspective and these are like my manufacturing bets. Okay. So my export bet is China not India. Okay. Why because they have already figured out systems to do it right so there is no point in experimenting. Okay. So consistent gumbounder or export this thematics. Okay. Right. Cyclical stocks now cyclical stocks are very interesting you will clearly. Really see a pattern like this happening right so for example just say and these are mostly PSU companies. Okay. So for example if you look at poll India. Okay. If you pick any right give me names random names. Okay. Like government oriented. Okay. SBI REC ONG. ONG is the way to go. HL. Varys a government company. I don't know. NTVC. Let's see. NTPC. Okay. Does this look like a cyclical chart? Yes. Yeah. It looks very cyclical. Okay. Goes up. Goes up. Goes up. It has that sign wave pattern. Okay. So it moves mostly sideways. But in this way. Okay. If you know so Paul I did not cover like a lot of things like for example the consolidation etc. Right. So I'm just quickly doing it and MBC. Okay. So NMTC. Okay. Now for example this right again like cyclical. Okay. So what you will see is now there is no harm in terms of buying cyclical companies. Right. And say any any you pick. Okay. So mostly these are like cyclical right the point is that you pick them at a good cycle. And pick them at a bottom. Okay. And here time of entry is very critical. Right. So I here pick her. And whenever you are you are starting seeing like no massive correction has happened. Here. You pick her later than it could have fallen mode. But you at least get an exit here. Okay. So to cut the long story short if you're buying on this cup pattern it kind of makes sense. Otherwise it makes no sense whatsoever. These are not buy and hold or buy and forget type of stocks. Okay. These you add later once you become slightly mature investor. Okay. Maybe you want to get set right to cyclical stocks value stocks. Here what happens is that you are buying an industry which is at a very low PE. And the PE expands subsequently. Okay. So now this is very this is getting more and more difficult to do. So I would not recommend you to talk too much about it. But there will there can be like P.E. arbitrage is right. For example, if everyone is bearish on let's say HDFC bank. Okay. From a PE point of view. So for example here you will see P.E. The P of HDFC bank fell to 15 and at one point in time it was like 30. Okay. So here I think that at one point in time it was 48. And it fell all the way till like 15 16. Okay. So this is massive P contraction. Now of stock like P judge. Can you buy them at consolidation zones. Okay. So for example this this is a consolidation zone. Right. So this is forming forming a rectangular pattern. Okay. This is forming a rectangular pattern. Okay. And it is below its average P. Okay. So this is average P everyone gets it. And this is forming a rectangular below its average P. Okay. So this is these are two conditions that are getting it. Now from here what it indicators. They can see. I have a P.E. Nietzsche. So P will not fall below this right much. Okay. Even if it falls maybe like 5 10% P drop will happen. Most likely likely it is going to expand. For example. This this part was what rectangular pattern below its average P. Okay. So this is average P. And this is forming an rectangular pattern below its average P. If you would have bought it here you would have benefited from the P.E. Expansion because the P went from what 22 all the way till 35 right. So this expansion was there. Okay. Now the problem that happens is that people will buy it here. Right. For example you bought it here. Right. Then it went up it went it down. It went up it went it down. And then you'll get frustrated. Okay. You'll say again. I'm going to say 100 to please now it has again become 100 to please only. Okay. And after like whatever like 2.5 years. You are getting frustrated here because you're not doing any regular profit booking. Okay. Everyone with me but if you trade those channels book little little profits yesterday some of you are asking me that why you're booking like 15% profits on like you know XYZ stocks. This is the reason. Okay. So that you don't feel that frustration at least push the profit up in the book here. Everyone gets it. Okay. Okay. Good. So now the final type of stocks that I want to cover is called as 2x to 5x stocks or multi baggers. Okay. Now people ask me that you can you tell me like a framework for finding multi-vaggers is he going to tell. Okay. So if no one knows how to find multi-vaggers but a multi-vagger has the following traits. Okay. Number one the market cap is small. Okay. The P is generally little. Okay. So and the EPS. The EPS is growing. Okay. Or the EPS grows. And finally the interest comes in stock. Okay. A classic case study is Titan. Okay. When the Rakesh engine was a big Titan in 2002 I think right somewhere around that time. Titan was at like 34 rupees stock. Okay. Its market cap was very low. Right. Maybe like whatever 20 euros. Okay. It's PE was very low. Okay. EPS was growing because the industry was growing. This is a very important point that what was happening at on Titan. Well, the jewelry sector was getting organized. What is the meaning of jewelry sector getting organized? Right. Instead of having so many there will be like one Titan. When Titan was just expanding right. Very similar traits one could argue can be seen on IDFC first. Okay. We had spoken about this earlier. For example, the market cap of IDFC first is 45,000 crore. Okay. HDFC bank is how many 1.4 lakh crore. Okay. So IDFC first is 20x smaller. Okay. And if for example, if this is a map of India and if IDFC first bank is like it's only these many branches. But if over the next 10 years it goes like this. If it creates so many branches. Then what do you think is going to happen to IDFC first business. Well, it will at least 4x 5x. Right. So what is the bet that you're taking on IDFC first. You are looking at 2x 3x expansion on their banking branches. That's it. Okay. Now is that required. Yes. Is there a benefit of having banking branches. Yes. Why? Because banking is a trust based business. You would not trust a complete online bank. For example, Jupiter is an online bank. Will you trust it in India? No. Right. I will give you money. Which branch will I go and do that now? Right. So then you will not you know that becomes an issue. At least branches are there. So you can go and grab someone's color or whatever. Right. So I mean, at least that option is there with you. So therefore I feel very weird like putting money in like Y. Okay. Reason is it's a complete online bank. It has great interface in UA and it's back to the first taboo that we bank and all that. But it does not have branches. That's a problem. Right. So if I have to deposit like safe money, I'll do it with ADCV and Fav and all that. Okay. So that's the point. Okay. So everyone gets this. These are some of the traits of these companies to go up. Okay. So this is one. Now I see zero difference between Bitcoin, unlisted stocks and stocks where I'm doing some kind of speculation. For example, IDFC first. I'm doing speculation. What is the speculation that it's banking branches will go for X in the next 10 years. Okay. With short term price movement, if it falls by minus 20, do I care not really? Okay. As long as my thesis is intact that they are going to expand fast. Okay. I'll give you some good times. Welcome. And then they will make money. Now, important point to note on these two X 5X assets is very simple. That's a you cannot make two X 5X returns without taking two X 5X risks. There is no free return. Okay. So for example, if you cannot even handle like a 20% fall on IDFC first, do not invest. Okay. If you can't handle like 30 40% fall on something like I know PVR. Do not invest. Okay. If you can't handle 30 40 50% fall on. Let's say something like a dream folks do not invest. Okay. So that's simple. You cannot expect like a company to go like 4X without even taking a hit of 50% on that particular stock. Okay. So I put any investment here. You know, you can actually put for context. Let me just show you something interesting. So for example, this is Amazon. Okay. Amazon Inc. Okay. Okay. So now if you take a look at Amazon. Okay. Now this is 2022. It was a multi trillion dollar company. It fell by 54%. Okay. A large cap multi trillion dollar company falling by 54%. Right. This was a 54% fall on Amazon. Okay. This. When Amazon was a small company, do you guys know how much did it's market cap erode by right. So for example, if you go to early 2000s. Okay. For example, you have a big wall. Let's show. Let's not show. Okay. So this is it. For example. Okay. So if you take a look. Okay. So if you study. If you felt like in early 2000s, right. That. Okay. You know what Amazon is a great company. How much did the value erode by it got eroded by almost 92%. Okay. It's a great thing. Right. I mean, for example, 90% erosion of capital. Now if I TVR I know, I'll be filled by 30% 40% and people are crying like anything right. And you know what actually do. You know, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't I don't care. I don't care. I don't care. I don't know. I don't care. I don't care. I don't care. I don't care. I don't care and there are not guests that talk about it. etc. See, yes, bank is not a high-quality asset. It just does not make any sense. Banking is a trust-based business. Tell me this, would you be comfortable doing a 10-year FD with a yes bank? If the answer is no, why would you buy a yes bank stock? Will you be comfortable doing a 10-year FD with a HDFC bank or Kotec bank? Probably yes. So that's the bottom line. So that's the bottom line. If you don't trust someone in a banking business, there is no point in giving money there. If you want to speculate, rather better approaches, rather than giving money to a yes bank, give it to Bitcoin. There is already a 35-40% margin of safety. Bitcoin is a tech-based asset. Look, I think Bitcoin technology will fail. What are the waiting for? What technology to fail? It's already closed to a 10-million dollar asset. When will hacking happen? It's already out there. If hacking happened on that layer 1 blockchain network, it would have already happened. So I understand that tech. Now, I cannot explain you right on this class because it's a little bit complex topic. But if you understand that tech of Bitcoin, then honestly, there is nothing to fear. Many people ask stupid questions around Bitcoin. If all that, 21 million Bitcoin then why would even miners be present on the network? All these are legitimate questions, but it's lack of knowledge regarding Bitcoin. Understand that. That is where knowledge alpha comes from. This goes beyond the course per view, so I will not enter there. But I hope you got the perspective. For me, there is zero difference between buying Bitcoin and unlisted stock like NSC. Now, how much of my portfolio will I put on something like NSC between 2.5% to 5%. Which brings us to the final topic for this session, which has to do with unlisted stocks. Unlisted stocks. What is the meaning of unlisted stocks? So basically, a stock goes through three important phases. One is called as seed2vc. The second phase is called as... The second phase is called as IPO. And third phase is called as public market. For example, public market stocks right now are BSC. Seed2vc stage. Now, here, there are a range of companies. For example, if you take a look at something like, let's say, let's pick the example of Zomato. Now, when Zomato started back in whatever early 2000, it was like the size of the company was like this. Then VC series A funding happened. They got like $5 million. So the size of the company became this. Then series B happened. Then the size of the company became this. Then over time, it became like this. Now, this is like... Now, the stage between IPO and this. Where massive VC funding has happened is called as pre IPO stage. Where the company is still unlisted. So this is unlisted. What does the meaning of listed? Listed means listed on public exchange. So this becomes listed. So this stage here is called as unlisted stage. And here, you can buy certain categories of company. For example, wisdom hatch is an unlisted company. NSC is an unlisted company. Oyo right now is an unlisted company. But people know about Oyo. People do not know much about wisdom hatch. Why? Because I am not going to buy VC DC. And IPO, but Oyo, the founder is very ambitious guy. So he would want to IPO at one stage. So he will IPO here. And the moment it I POs, it becomes a part of public market. And then generally people enter into these types of stocks. So I hope that everyone is clear about this journey. That in this C2 VC stage, you have companies like wisdom hatch also. And you have companies like Oyo also. You have companies like NSC also. And all types of companies are there. CDJ, BCD, EF. Now, the important point to notice that in the unlisted space, if you are buying companies, you should primarily buy these type of companies. Okay. Why? Because these companies are likely to IPO. Now comes a very natural question. Why they will they IPO? Why can't they just stay like unlisted forever? Okay. So then comes the second point that for example, Ritesh Agarwal, founder of Oyo. What's the, when will Ritesh Agarwal make real money? Benda company, I POs. Now why do you think like shark tank and tire like judge, judge, then in that company, I PO, go back to the shark tank. Okay. Because after that a lot of hate will come. It will stop. Goals. Okay. So for example, that's that's how if like it majorly happening every shark is IPO. Right. For example, Mahamarth, person IPO. Okay. Lens card guy is going to IPO. Okay. Oyo like Ritesh Agarwal also came on shark tank. Why? Because he's about to IPO. Who else? Right. Aman Gupta, boat is going to IPO. Okay. So all these companies like why do you think like founder that doing like so much PR? What's the goal? Right. The goal is to make more money, right. For themselves and their investors and all that stuff. Okay. Now how do you make money in once the company goes from analyst and to list it? Okay. So the way it works is very simple. Right. For example, I run a YouTube channel. Okay. Now let's say my monthly income is hypothetically, let's say 10 lakh rupees. Okay. Now what is a PE on that income? One, why? Because it's like a job. Okay. I'm doing a job for YouTube. I'm making content. And at the end of the month, YouTube pays me 10 lakh salary. Because that's how I'm working. Okay. Now what is a PE on a salary? The answer is one. Okay. Why? Because there is a multiple that I'm getting. Okay. Now what I do is that I say that hey, you know what? I'll make my YouTube channel a tradable asset. Okay. What I'll do is that I'll issue 100 shares for my company at a valuation of 10 times multiples. Okay. So which leads to what that for example, 10 lakhs someone motavodavagadog is my salana revenue profits is one crore. Okay. Hi hypothetically. Now the valuation of my company becomes 12 crore. Not 12 people buy that. Okay. And I retain like, you know, 30, 40% of that company. Okay. Then rest 70%, 75% I liquid it. Okay. So all of you buy it. Okay. Now what I've done is that I've added a multiple of 10 to my company. Okay. Now you will say that, okay, I will say that you know, what actually company man, West, he had and he gave me an dividend of like, you know, say 7% okay. And I, I GFC banged it out. I saw it charted it, it was short. It was right and then she will pump up my company. Okay. Then she will go and find more people coming. Okay. So then she will bring her like, you know, sister, brother, all that stuff. So they will buy at 12 p. Okay. Then their sister brother also buy their cousins. Okay. So then they will also like participate. Now my company goes to 20 p. Okay. Then one day I IPO. Okay. Then everyone goes mad here. I know what? Okay. You know, wisdom has such great company. Missed I get my rally and all that stuff. So they will go and buy my company at 100 p. Okay. So now a company which is generating like a 12 crore profit, start trading at a 12, you know, 100 p. So what does that mean? That my valuation becomes roughly what about 12 100 crores. Okay. So now suddenly I'm a person who was making like 10 lakh rupees a month salary. Now I own a company which is worth 1200 crores. So did you see the magic? Okay. So that's how it works. Okay. So therefore finance is the stupidest thing on earth. Okay. So like and still they get the most important thing because the entire job of consultants, investment bankers, regulators is to pump up companies. Okay. So I'm just telling you honest facts. I don't give a shit. Okay. So that's how it goes. Okay. So now you say, okay, so the problem is that it comes with a lot of stress. Okay. For example, a lot of like very seasoned VCs wants to invest in my company. But the moment I take their money, my freedom is gone. Okay. Now my call jet skiing. Okay. I'm a valve. We are VCC that bathed. We are BS. I mean, I'm not just at that type of a person. There's no point. I'll rather enjoy my life with whatever money I have. Okay. I'm not able to spend it. Okay. So I'm focusing on spending my money. I'm not focusing on growing from like whatever. 100 crores to 1000 crores. Okay. So money is what I'm like through investing money. Right. So why take all that headache? Okay. People get very stressed also. So it comes with a lot of health risks. Okay. So I have friends. I'm going to be a big money. Right. So that's what I'll do. Right. For example, just I encourage money guys. Right. So smart guys right. I mean, I am in the bath, gold, medallist, IT Bombay. Right. So which I mean, who runs incredible. Very smart guy. Good team. Their job is to build B. Okay. That's what they are doing. Okay. So customer to get money. I don't know. I don't know. I don't care. Okay. So that's the benefit of running like a bootstrap company. I don't even do an advert actually. Okay. Who won I add? Right. So I'm going to say it's not as if that I don't want to like make more money. Right. So I do much effort. I'm tired. Right. So there's no point. Okay. So I'd rather watch like Netflix. Okay. I'll see the case. Right. So Netflix. So I'm like on get it. So I mean, it's like I'm too old. And okay. So I hope but hope this gives you a sense of how companies are built. Okay. Does it look scammy? Yes. Can you do anything about it? No. Okay. What can you do? Right. You will say that again, no. I'm the principal in Sanev. We are not going to buy like such companies and all that stuff. But then you cannot you should stop investing. Okay. See, stock investing is a speculation game. Okay. The most speculation happens here in public markets. Okay. So let me show you concrete examples. Okay. So for example, if you consider something like, let me show you two three examples. Right. So BSE. Okay. Bombay stock exchange limited. How do people think about Bombay stock exchange limited? They will think that a market cap is 75,000 crore. It's a monopoly company. This is that stuff. Okay. So they will think about all these things. Okay. Now if you would have bought and here is where IPO had happened of Bombay stock exchange at 356 rupees. Then in 2070. Okay. Then it went down, down, down, down, down, down, down, down. For four years, you made nothing. Right. For three, four years. And the valuation got crushed by almost 66%. Okay. So imagine someone had bought an IPO of Bombay stock exchange, a public government company and lost 66% of the capital. What would they think? They'll say, yeah, this is a Bacuase. Right. I mean, I don't know. It's not over. After three years. So this is massive loss for you. Right. But then what happened? You sold it here. Right. Now you sold it here. A little bit of recovery. Then all that right. Okay. So you know, you exited here. And after that, it went like 11X. Okay. What about like, let's say something like, let's say, Swiggy. Okay. What happened with Swiggy? Swiggy is here. Okay. It IPO had 456. It went to 2600. Okay. Then it got crushed and it came back to 350. Okay. But here is the magic. Okay. So I don't know how many people bought Swiggy in this stage. Right. This was pre IPO. Unillisted space. So I bought it at 360 rupees. Okay. If this is here, right. This is my price here. I'm like staring at a 10% loss. It's not end of the world or for a stock like Swiggy. Why? Because even in the market context, the entire market itself is corrected by 15% no. So it's not as if you know what I have taken like some dramatic hit on like Swiggy's stock and all that. Plus what have I been able to successfully buy? I have been able to buy at least a 45% price correction. Okay. Everyone gets gets this point. Okay. So to cut the long story short, right. What is happening right now is that the entire goal of IPO market is to pump the stock. Okay. Like this. This is like pure gambling. Okay. And then a price discovery happens. Right. And we don't know what that price discovery will be. Even the listing price is just way too high. Majority of the time. For example, this opened at 456. If the market would have continued to run up, this stock might have reached 800 or something. Okay. So there is just no way we can figure that out. That what is going to happen. Pay TM. Okay. And then I will give you like E take away on this. See, if you consider pay TM now what happened on pay TM. Pay TM opened here 1560. You would have run to bought by like 1560. Okay. And you have not been able to recover your money up until now. Everyone understands. So what we need to do on unlisted stocks is that Ola electric. So was like another company altogether. Right. I mean, what the whole again. Rajak Pripich is Alkria. Right. So just leave it. Right. So the point is that here we do not buy every type of company that is out there. We buy companies where you understand that a lot of interest will come A where the brand value is there. Right. Some kind. Okay. And second key point is that the business will sustain for four five years. Right. That's second Creek area. And third is that you buy at a decent valuation. Three things. Okay. One brand should be strong. Slash business should be strong. Those 1718 point checklist if you just go through. Second is that the business will be able to survive for four five years because if you buy even post IPO. Right. For example, if you bought pay TM post IPO. But I did not buy it by the way. So I do not buy companies post IPO. Right. I mean, this IPO is a price discovery game. Okay. So Mama Artha De Clow and all that stuff. Same stuff has happened. Okay. So for example, people will buy it like this. This is dumping of IPO. Right. Now it will go through a price correction. Right. And price discovery. And after three four years, five years, then again, like, you know, this price will hit. Okay. So you either buy if you are really interested in buying like, you know, NSDL or sorry, NSC. Or if you're really interested in buying OO, then again, something similar might happen with them. Okay. Then IPO, for example, on the listed pay, NSC is let's say hypothetically 1600 rupees. Okay. Now IPO might open at 3600. Okay. This is IPO. People will look at BSC. People will say, yeah, these are BSC or went 11X. Here at least five X will be there. Okay. Where do people start tracking prices? People start tracking price post IPO. Okay. So just in a, I'll just open up BSC again. So here is BSC. Okay. So BSC's price tracking, where will it start? It will start tracking from 335. They will not start tracking from un-illisted space prices. Everyone is understanding this because there is no price history around it. Okay. So here, what will people see? Yeah. They go BSC. That's a buggy. Right. So how will NSC go? NSC also similar company like BSC. So it will also grow like this only. Okay. So let's assume that the IPO is getting, you know, right now un-illisted, it's getting sold at like whatever 1600 rupees. Even if it gets listed at 3500 rupees, people will run to buy this. Why? Because NSC is a monopoly stock. Okay. Oyo, what are you buying? Oyo, you are buying undervaluation. For example, when I bought Oyo in the un-listed space, I bought it at a $4 billion valuation. So the company was valued at $4 billion. Now, why am I saying that this is undervalued? The reason is very simple because at one point in time, Oyo was valued at $11 billion in the private space. Then almost 60, 70% of its value got eroded. Why? Because that was the startup bubble. Okay. And Oyo survived that startup bubble. So three things that we need to take a look at in un-listed space. Number one, brand. Okay. That is there a some kind of brand. Okay. Number two, will the business survive for at least five years? In number three, is the valuation somewhat fair. Now, you have to do like a relative computation here because you'll not get the data to do this, right? You cannot track like technicals and all that stuff here. So here you have to do like a really broad math, right? Ki brand unishie. NSC is a very strong brand. Will it survive? 100% it will survive. 100-tony-volts-at-ten, 99.99% it will survive for the next five years. Valuation does it seem fair? We don't know, right? So therefore what I am doing is that I will build 50% of my position pre-IPU because I don't know at what price it will IPO. And 50% I will then see what to do once IPO has happened and price discovery has happened. Okay. So this is the technique that I'm buying in un-listed space for NSC. What about Oyo? So Oyo, I have already built like 100% of positions that I wanted to build because there I have a clear valuation because Oyo had fallen in valuation. And now I'm buying it here. So after IPO, the only goal is to pump up the price. Okay. So look at that. Yeah, I mean how it goes. Okay. Now in the un-listed space, the, for example, Swiggy story. Now Swiggy unlisted that I bought it for was around 360 rupees. Okay. It IPOed at 460, 470 and then it went to 600 and now it has fallen to 350. Okay. So right now it is going through a price discovery. But the point is that the floor price has been set and the market situation in which the IPO comes determines its fate. Okay. What does that mean? For example, if you are on a bull market and NSC IPO is in a bull market, the price will go like this. But if IPO comes and a bear market starts, then it's a problem. What happened with PTM? Same problem. That the IPOed in a bad market. I mean, it IPOed and then the market became bad. Okay. Now that is not something that PTM can do anything about. Okay. Now then comes, you know what? There is a lot of speculation because when we invest and understood stocks, our money gets logged for six months. Okay. So you can't sell it because even founders can't sell it. Otherwise, you know, Ritesh Agraval will come. Right. He'll buy a lot of equity and unlisted and first day of the IPO will sell everything and run on me. Okay. So that to prevent that, um, CB has a rule that founders or early investors cannot sell their equity for at least six months. So there is a six month lock in period. Okay. Now that's not just for us. That's for even the founders. Okay. So it's not as if that we are losing. Then comes that okay. If that is the case, then what's the guarantee that I'll see guarantee is okay. Okay. So this you have to do your own risk reward. But think about its structure. For example, Ritesh Agraval. Right. Is the founder of OEO. When will he make money? When he is able to liquidate his prizes or his stock at good prizes. Okay. For example, right now, if even unlisted guys unlisted are early investors. We are buying let's say OEO at let's say 350 rupees hypothetically. Okay. And Ritesh Agraval entire objective is that you know what? One day I'll be able to exit it at like maybe 1500 rupees because that's the only company that he's building. You are still investing like 100 different companies. But Ritesh Agraval might not even have a stock portfolio. Yeah. He picks a salary right now. And 99% of his wealth is logged with OEO's great. Okay. If it IPO's well, if it does well, then he makes a lot of money. If IPO, not as good and all that stuff. So he will focus all his energy. Now how do they build the book? So here you need to understand how Ritesh Agraval might be building the book of IPO. No, sorry, building the book of building the book for OEO. So what they do is that for example, it's not like free market. You know what? Okay. OEO IPO. It goes like 450 then it falls like 250 and all that stuff. No. So number one point is that they find out investment bankers who can help them IPO. For example, codex security, ZGTFC, all these people are bookbuilders. They run their own mutual funds. Okay. For example, HDFC, Koteq, Vanu, Khaanak, Khaanak, Koteq has a mutual fund also. It's map is IP. So your money goes to buying these type of companies. So they become counter by us. So it's a web of complications at the backend. Okay. So what I'm trying to tell you is that investment bankers also make money if the IPO goes well. Ritesh Agraval also makes money when the IPO goes well and sustains. Okay. So for example, Vijay Shekar Sharma has not liquidated his equity in PTM because it is not doing really well. Okay. He will only be able to liquidate it at some stage when PTM does well. Okay. So to cut the long story short, this is complicated. These type of stocks you get last in two or if you are a very patient guy, then you can do that. Right. But the thought process of investing is very simple for me. That if I'm getting some kind of good valuation, good brand, which will survive for five years, I don't care too much. For example, I have no intention of selling like NSC stock in the next two years. Okay. It's okay. I'll just buy it now. I'll hold it for five, six years and if I'm getting 10, 11, X, that's huge returns for me. So that's I'm happy. I'm putting like it's much more sensible for me to buy NSC compared to a one small cap stock. Okay. So we are getting why? Okay. So I will treat NSC stock as Bitcoin. Okay. So that's how I will look at it because it's almost guaranteed to win as long as you're buying cheap. But if you play the LIC game on it, okay. So what happened with LIC? Okay. LIC. LIC. Okay. Here is LIC. Okay. Now what happened with LIC? It opened at 826. There is huge up move and it is going to be a lot of people bought it here, exited here in loss after like one year. Okay. Because government companies, there is massive speculation that starts to happen right at the IPO stage. Okay. Because everyone understands government companies, they are super excited to buy it. Okay. So they will buy it whatever price it's they treat it as bank evades, money when NSM. So if you're going to make it, right. And then it becomes like a problem for government also. So therefore when it comes to NSC, and NSC is a very prized asset because it is a complete monopoly. Okay. So unlike LIC, LIC is a LIC that you will have instances when you are going to have to invest in LIC agents, right. This is the number of people who are going to open a new account and all that stuff. Right. So for example, etc, etc. Right. So such BS is at least not happening on NSC business model. Right. If you want to trade NSC, you will make some money out of it for whatever like brokerage, etc. So it's not like a bad product connotation or bad product association with NSC. NSC is a solid company, right. And it will remain like a solid company, right. And it has like a what do you call it? Like there is a moat in the business, right. LIC is like if we, right. I mean, for example, Khara product based the Bikari policy, right. We're just a family group, we're bigger in LIC policy and right. So I know all that stuff. Agent, right. And then we're unnecessarily selling. So there is no push based sales on like when it comes to NSC. Okay. So therefore it is a solid business model. So in unlisted space again, it becomes even more important to do like fundamental analysis of the stock. And somewhat by correct evaluation. Okay. So I hope that this is clear of people get tired, right. So I I will not let that like our break to you, right. So any answer, right. So okay. So let's take a five minute break. Right. So I'll be back 11, 17, mind time. Okay. So all right.