Transcript for: Live Session VIII - US Stock investing (Part 1) -
Transcription Date: 2025-04-01 23:50:39.425677
==================================================

 Hi everyone, I hope you can see me, if yes, very quick thumbs up. Awesome, awesome. Alright, so more people are joining and I'll just wait for like a few seconds and then we will start. Okay. Alright. Okay, people are able to join in. Good evening, good evening everyone. Okay, awesome. Alright, so let's start guys and this is the final class. Right, so on this I will speak a little bit about three things. Right, so one is that I will just complete the selling part. Right, and I spoke about one of the most complicated yet profound techniques of selling in the last class. I'll not repeat it. That was simple moving averages technique. Okay. So that's trend following. That's what momentum means you would have heard about a lot of things like momentum, one to go to the scene and all that. And then they'll give you like some complicated strategy and all that. Cochriniyao. So right, I mean, all is this. Okay, I'll just tell you, save like one percent commission. Okay, so unlike any mutual fund. Right, so I mean, that's what they track. The new thing and right now, but honestly, like if you do do this, it's like 80 20 80 20 means that there is like a Pareto principle which says that. That 20% focused efforts generate 80% results. So in the stock market also, we need to act in the same manner. Okay, so this is one right I'll cover rest of the selling techniques quickly. Right, and then I will just have two three more points to cover. Then I'll highlight that right. So morning we studied these these specific points. Okay, now this side covered right that okay, 30% law should I sell no right. I see the market's falling soon should I sell now and reenter. So basically what are you trying to do? You're trying to write a trend. So again, I had explained this in the morning that you rather do this through SMA technique or channel trading technique. Right, that kind of makes more sense. You cannot prevent parabolic false right 2008 was a parabolic fault 2020 was a parabolic fall. You cannot cannot I am saying you again that here you will get hit. It's not about like and it's like saying that okay, I want to get into a boxing ring, but I don't want to take any punch. Okay, so that will not happen. Okay, you cannot like keep on making 15 20% returns consistently over like you know substantial period of time without going through a little bit of heartics. Okay, so this happens due to recession. What exactly is a recession. So I will release a video today. How to make money in a recession and you know, we are so like that's that's fun. Okay, so like just watch that it's an interesting video that I've done. So public video you can watch it. It will be released tonight. Okay, so this you cannot really time this is again a useless debate. Okay, went to exit good fundamentally consistent growth stocks. Okay, see it's not about exiting good fundamentally consistent growth stocks. Okay, so for example, just say nifty 50 right now it is fairly valued. I would not say that it is undervalued right now. Now nifty 50 is a fundamentally good asset. It is fairly valued. Okay, and let's say that you have been investing into nifty 50 let's say when you are like 20 years old. Okay, and now you're 40 now you started with you know, 5000 rupees now you run an SIP of one like group. Right, then overall your portfolio is like 50 60 likes. Okay, so that's a lot of money on nifty 50 you require that money. For example, let's say you know, wedding of son daughter sending them abroad. Doing bunch of different things. So this money is needed. Okay, now wherever you feel that the asset is overvalued or fairly valued. Okay, overvalued with a definitely legal job. For example, small cap mid caps are overvalued. So you withdraw money there first. Okay, second, if you require more money, then you withdraw money from fairly valued. Okay, undervalued you try not to sell it, but again, this is goal based investing. You are going you are investing for a goal. You started investing in like stock markets to meet certain life goals. That was a purpose of stock investing to begin with. So it's not as if that you should not pull out money if required. Right now, so it's not about that right. So for example, the goal is not like you know, invest forever and die. Okay, the goal is that you use that money also right. So if you need money, then you should definitely pull it out everything right from overvalued assets from fairly valued asset. So it's completely okay if those goals are critical. Okay, there is little bit of goal planning also. So goal planning simply means that see for example, let's say right now in 2025. Okay, nifty 50 is fairly valued. Okay, now what is the meaning of a fairly valued fairly valued means this is a good time to enter stock market also. And this is a good time to exit stock market also. Okay, and it depends on how much of your network is there on the stock markets. For example, someone who has 100% of their investments in real estate right now. Okay, they want to enter the stock market. So for them to 2025 is a great entry here. Okay, on the flip side, if someone is 100% stock investor. Okay, and they have like critical things coming up. For example, daughters wedding have to study abroad, have to pay MBA tuition for ISV, all that stuff. It's a great time for them to exit some of the stocks like I mean nifty 50 also a bit. Okay, so this has to do with goals. These are extremely personalized. I cannot comment on that. Okay, but again, the yard stick is that whenever you are putting money for example, whatever new money you are bringing to the stock market today in 2025. It should at least have a three year time span. Okay, associated with it. Okay, so for example, when you book an FD, you at least hold it for a year or whatever, like you know, commitment you have made. Okay, so therefore you are putting it there. Right. So similarly, if you are putting money in stock markets, then again, you are making a commitment that you will hold it for three years. So say, first, if opportunities there and all that stuff create, okay, but today, whatever new money was throwing here, okay. It has to be done for a three year basis. Okay, everyone with me. Now why three year basis because it allows you to write the trend for three years. Okay, or like some part of that three year. It allows you to capital rotate. Okay, it allows you to buy something which is undervalued, invest, take money out of overvalued, rotate capital, all that stuff. Okay, so you can only, you will only benefit from the stock market if you at least have a three year window. Okay, now I'm not saying that buy and forget for three years. All I'm saying is that hey, you're investing like one lakh rupees today. At least you need to give it three years from a portfolio planning perspective for it to take ship. Okay, so it's like not saying that you know what I want to eat mango like I'm in. I'll plant seed today and tomorrow I want to eat fruit. No, no, no, no. Okay, so similarly, this is a situation here. Okay, all right, went to exit good fundamentally consistent growth companies. The answer probably is never. Okay, you should book partial profits. If you require money, then you withdraw it. Otherwise, there is no sense to exiting it. Limit to downward averaging, right? So many people say that he know what? Akshat, I bought like geo finance. At let's say 100 unit page up stock price. Okay, then it fell to 70 units. Okay, I bought more. Okay, then it fell to 50 units. Then I bought more. Okay, then I fell to 30 units. Then I bought more and then it went to zero. Okay, so like that can also have to do. Okay, so so what is happening here? You have made it and ego game. Okay, now what is the ego game? Ego game simply means that's because I'm having a loss of 30% on geo finance. I need to do all my lost recovery from this. Okay, then it falls by another 30% then you invest even more. Then it falls by another 30% then you invest even more. Okay, the point is when should you stop? Whenever you have invested 5% of your capital on an individual asset, you stop. You stop being a gambler. There are things beyond our scope of analysis, which we might not be able to see. So just leave it and does this rule apply on index? No, indexes are fine. For example, nifty 50 if you if it falls well like 30% then you invest 35% then you invest more. That is fine, right? Because index going to zero the chances are very less unless the Indian economy collapses. Okay, now when will Indian now if Indian economy collapses let's assume that you have gotten out of nifty 50. You will put it in a bank. Have you know, so GDP going to zero means what? Right, even your bank deposit will go to zero. So everything will go to zero. So on that note, there is no benefit of like sort of not a downward averaging index. Okay, everyone gets this. Okay, now many people want to sector rotate. People ask me that they tell me like three indicators where I can sector rotate all that. See, this used to be easy in the past that okay, consumer durables. Right, then here it will get overvalued. Then people will pull out money. Then it will go to banks. Then it will they will pull out money. Then you know bank ran up over here. And then it will move to FMCG. This used to happen in the past. Okay, now what is happening is that for example, even within banks. For example, you would have seen that private banks last four years. Nothing, right, not much returns. Okay, public banks, for example, PNB went from 35 rupees all the way till 120 rupees. Okay, which was crazy. Okay, so public banks give her enough small finance banks give one round of run up. Then they corrected a lot. Now they might give another round of run up. So what I'm telling you is that the bank in itself has several sub segments. Okay, so a better approach rather than saying that he I will invest in like FMCG stocks or for learning first of a so figure out sub segments in which you are investing. Okay, for example, in finance, these sub segments will be private banks public banks. You will have small finance bank companies. You will have insurance companies. You will have life insurance slash health insurance companies. You will have AMCs. You will have brokerages like in jail one, cams, CDSL, etc. etc. So these are several themes available within finance. So it's not as if that money will rotate from like consumer durables to finance and then finance to like an auto and all that stuff. Okay, within auto. There are four wheelers. There are two wheelers. So that's another segment. So which segment are you picking? Okay, so some of the segments in which I am personally bullish finance. I'm very bullish. Okay, why? Because it's typically a sector which grows faster than the GDP. Some of these smartest most well known entrepreneurs who have come out in India in the last 15 years come from the field of finance or are working in finance startups. For example, pay TM zero, the thread. What else now we write. So all these guys are established entrepreneurs all. All good right finance is typically not very capital intensive right for example to create an AMC or brokerage. It's not as if that you require crazy amount of money. Right CDSL HDFC MC they can all do well. It's a domestic consumption story for example it caters to the rich right for example no mama with it caters to the rich. Okay, so they have paying power right for example India is one of the most costliest countries to have a vacation in. It's costly to have a vacation in Goa right where I am from right and compared to Vietnam Thailand you might already be reading this but does it have it has it stopped people from having vacation. No, it's catering to the rich. Okay, so there are Camelia for example people are buying in Camelia good now breathing pollution but you can buy like maybe three apartment and books, California, that price. Not getting okay so the point is that it's not as if that people don't have money in India people have a lot of money but only like maybe top two percent people. Okay, so unblack money is a very empty here if you include like black money we might be richer than China. So that might be the side of it so but anyways okay so that's a situation so you bet on individual specific themes that your bullish on I am very conservative now right for example I'm taking very conservative bets on India right for example AMC's is my. Private banks is my theme insurance hospitals two wheeler stocks right two less may I have a judge auto I have. Zero motor call right so these are my two themes in two years okay cam CDSL by again I had booked already booked profits but that's it okay I have zero tech zero IT zero farmer now okay I am generally shifting out of India because of tax advantage. As I was speaking about right I mean you guys are my students so I can at least explain it sensibly otherwise if I write it on a public forum that I'm selling India for a pizza but I can write and all. So all that I don't know to okay so I don't know to get into all that nonsense right so I'll basically what's your body right so. Any right so I hope that you get the sense as to why it's not as if that it would trust the Indian market is just I have an orbit Raj in the US market so I am. More inclined to do that can you know sector rotation no okay so you can't know but there are some science right so for example let me show you right so for example if you take a look at screener right so screener. If you take a look at let's say if you are picking the theme brokerage okay or. Brook Ridge slash stock related businesses so let's look at in jail one okay so in jail one I got a look at. Now this is down like almost it was almost 4000 it is at 23 so almost 40% drop has happened okay. Cams if you take a look right so almost 40% drop has happened CDSL almost 40% drop has happened so what has happened here right what has happened here is that the entire segment is going through a correction. Okay everyone understand that segment is going through a correction segment has gone through a correction already 40% now when should you build position in this segment. When it starts to give a run up so again that downward averaging valley cheese sorry down trend valley cheese that you need to build position in a downtrend so this is a good segment to now by and wait. Now can I give you a guarantee that it will come back up in two weeks I don't know maybe it will take two years but the point is that whenever it starts running the run up will be so fast and you might not even notice it right so what do I mean by that right so for example. Take a look at HDFC bank okay is anyone like Jubiliant on HDFC bank you guys have written the return on the right and I'm going to retire and all that stuff no. No one is like bothered about HDFC bank right it is silently running up right so for example if you take a look right so for example it was at 1600 it is at sorry. I think though from here to here right this run up right so 1400 say it has gone up to almost 1800 so 400 divided by 14 that it's 2 by 7 so that's approximately 2526% run up okay in a matter of few months now this needs to be seen in context of the market so 25% run up on HDFC. Bank market falling by 15% what's the alpha 25 plus 15 so that is 40% run up okay so that's the bottom line that people don't even notice when stocks are running up like good quality stocks and it happens and you know what what ends up happening is that this is called as capacitor theory okay so capacitor theory means that okay. HDFC bank now no run up will happen right it will keep on storing all good good things right for example. Good profit numbers are coming up good good things are coming up but in 2022 zero run up 2023 minus 2% run up 2024 minus 5% run up 2025 suddenly you will see like 45% run up okay so 4 years of gain all gets compensated in one single year. Okay so the idea is very simple that till that I'm revenues are going up profits are going up you are buying a good quality asset plus you're buying a good price be it in 2022 2023 to 2024 and you hold it for 3 to 4 years most likely you will make money a classic case study is ITC is a little bit show that also do you yeah so for example. This is ITC okay so for example if you consider right this phase of ITC from 2013 to 2019 80 gave 0% run up 6 years 0% run up now what was happening between 2013 and 19 so you'll say sales from 2013 to 2019 was how much. This much what was the profit profit did not even double in 6 years this is bad growth okay this indicates a C.A.G.R. of maybe 10% or something okay what about HDFC bank okay HDFC bank. So for example HDFC bank if you just simply do a rock computation it has stagnated between 2021 and 2025 so 4 years okay now what has happened to revenues profit from 2021 to 2025 okay so revenues doubled profits more than doubled in 4 years not 6 years okay and stock prices there okay now if ITC type of story repeats so I'll show you ITC what had happened after 10 years of consolidation on average company ITC stock went at least double from here to here okay so you can see so here it's a double over so HDFC stock can a double so if you go like. So HDFC stock can a double right from here to here yes it will double from at least here to where so at least it's the fair price when will I sell so I will not touch this stock till like almost 26 gas plus that's when my major selling will happen at around 26 okay so that's because why because prego it gets absence of 26 of what you're going to do right I mean and maybe you give it like 5 years my double one of the now it should reach like 26 by 2026 get 2600 by 2026 that's my. So I'm not going to get that rough estimate now this is an estimate it can go off but honestly like net net it kind of adds up okay so it's not as if that you're not able to get this story okay so I hope that this point is clear to everyone how to buy sell mutual fund I'm no clip okay so therefore I don't invest in you sell there's no head or leg to targeting it when to sell at what par get price to sell etc etc okay so this is the next point okay when to exit good fundamentally limit of downward averaging sector rotation have talked see hedging I will I you will learn as we move on like you know I will write some posts around it it's very difficult to explain it this way without experience okay so maybe I'll organize like a special class and teach you hedging but two three techniques that I've already taught you is that see you buy either a price correction or a time correction so which was called as margin of safety okay you buy in buy in not more than invest 5% of your portfolio okay don't buy in an uptrend buy only in a downtrend so if you apply all this it is kind of a hedging okay so this is where we will sort of park this but I hope that this gave you an understanding on when to sell stocks okay couple of technical patterns that I will quickly teach you right which I haven't taught so far right so one is called as couple with handle pattern okay so you both the new hour right so I mean I'll just pick maybe coating back okay so okay so this is this is a powerful pattern I will move the slider for some reason but I cannot move why access for some reason okay so basically what it says is that and this is the concept of break out also okay so for example what you will notice is that see this is a major resistance okay why because the stock touches this go stomp touches this goes down touches this goes down touches this goes down touches this goes down touches this goes down touches this goes d for how long after this has been happening田 Yoza what is this this is a break out hey breakout means that breakout means that's the this was the residence okay here it has The stock price has moved up and it has sustained. Okay, which means what? That it is likely to change this trading channel, long term trading channel. Now it might become like this. It might become like, for example, this. And this is a likely channel which might get formed now. Okay, so it might move like this. Okay, so this is whenever a breakout happens, that's a good time to buy a stock. Okay, why? Because then you are avoiding a time correction. Okay, so this is the pivot point. And this might be the last chance for you to catch it before this trade runs. Okay, so this is what the concept of breakout tells us. Now within this also, there are multiple types of pattern, right? Because for example, then you will be considering a chart. For example, if I catch the breakout now, where do I sell the stock? So this pattern, this looks like a cup with handle. Okay, so this gives you a selling target. So for example, what you do is that you take this depth of this cup. Okay, and you stick it here. Okay, now I'm not able to move the Y access for some reason. My trading view is malfunctioning. And whatever price point comes here. Okay, so you will be able to sell it there. Okay, so whatever that number comes out to be, it's not working for me to some reasons. Ah, now it's working. Yeah. Working, I don't know, I don't know, like so whatever. Uh, I'll draw there. So. So this is the concept of cup with handle. Everyone got it. Okay, so this is. It is a variant of this is called as reverse head and shoulder and all that stuff. We don't need to get into like extreme technicals, right? When major technicals have already taught you. So this is like this gives you a selling target. This roughly, you know, the chart, you know, the way to sell it. Okay, and technical traders will definitely sell it around this. Okay, won't you. Fundamental and elemental. It's a coroni, but they were right. For example, we are mostly fundamental investors. We use technicals as a support technical people are technical people. They will have a lot of stock, right? So when we only will trade on price, right? So that's what. No, so breakout is a great time to buy a stock, not sell a stock. Okay, why? Which means that a channel trend is changing. Okay. So if you're entering into a stock for the next three years, a breakout has happened. Now when breakouts happen, the stock runs quite a lot, right? So for example, just say, ah, if you go, right? So for example, if you make something like ITC breakout, it's not a good one, right? So ITC limited. And this was a 10 year consolidation, like from here to, sorry, not 10 years, but whatever. So this, if you draw like resistance support, it will look like this. Okay. And this is a breakout. Okay, so if you buy it here, right? So you would have bought it at like more whatever, like 280. And technically you could have ridden the entire trend and sold it at whatever, like I ran at least 14 with a beachy day. Okay. And this game came really fast. Okay. So the idea, you actually make profits by capturing these type of things. Did I was able to make profits here? No, right? Bye because I was more of a fundamental guy back in like 2022, game, technicals, will call using it and all that stuff. I'm out of the speculative market. So it's important to use technicals now. So therefore I started using technicals little bit more in conjunction with macros. Okay. So, okay. I've seen you time frame for the clue. There is no header like to this because a stock can consolidate for four, five years also. If they want HDFC bank to consolidate for another two years, it will consolidate. But the point is that whatever pent up gain is there, for example, inherent return of HDFC bank should be 13, 14% a year. Okay. That's the type of profit is generates on early basis. Now that 13, 14% gain will not come in the FD form that every year you are getting like that 13% in your account. No, you might have to wait with HDFC for five more years. Who knows? In the sixth year, 12 times five, 60% gains might come. Okay. So for example, 40% gains gain this year itself. Okay. So yeah, so that's the bottom line. Okay. I hope that this is clear to everyone. Okay. Now some patterns to avoid. Right. So for example, just say, have they closed. Right. Okay. Now, when will you lose money by chasing technicals? So whenever you see this barabolic rise, this and you are late to this parabolic rise. For example, what do I mean by late? So let's assume that you are here. Okay. That 3000. Okay. Should you buy trend as a fundamental guy here? Okay. You check three or five year 10 year basis in context of its revenue growth, profit growth, etc. You make an assessment if it looks overvalued and the technical pattern looks like a parabolic rise, you avoid. You do not chase it. Don't chase like whatever like that. Film it. I was in like bus running bus train girls, whatever. Right. So don't do that. Okay. So it's like true. Okay. So this is the simple point. Okay. So don't do this. You will lose money. Right. By this time, it's gone. Now it has gone into a speculative stage and you are speculating. Okay. On a price increase. That's the worst type of bet. It's too thick. Okay. For example, right? If you're buying under construction properties right now in Dubai, you are speculating. Okay. Why? Because the only thesis of buying right and there are like signs for example, typically you have to be. Okay. Under construction for example, I bought a property in Dubai and I got a PSF of 1600 PSF. Okay. I bought it in the next four or five weeks. I was able to rent it. So my cash flow started there. Now properties are getting sold in business base in area at 3000 PSF. So you lock in you pay like 20% down payment or whatever it is and you keep on making installment and you get that property after three years. So you are getting an off plan property that is an under construction property after three years and you are paying to X the PSF. Now what is that? That is speculation. Okay. Who is buying that? Those type of properties. I was saying you know what was. Kabhi Dubai market. Neechanini. So let's just speculate. Okay. Same things happen with stocks. So people who are who trade purely on price. Kiar. Mehz, I was able to make like you know at 20% return in like one month. So I'll also jump in right. So this is MLN marketing. Okay. So now then you'll go bankrupt doing this. Why? Because maybe you will make money once. Okay. You will invest in trend. You will exit with like 20% gains or whatever. Then what you will do next? Again, look for these type of stocks only. You do not have any system of investing. There is no head or leg to this system. You are just speculating purely on price and that's like Russian. Raleigh, right? So Russian. Raleigh simply means that there is like a gun, right? Revolver six chambers. You put one bullet, spin the revolver, put it on your head, click. Okay. You are saved. So you'll assume that you are always going to be safe. No. Okay. And this is a genuine thing. Right? I'm in Trashame if you go and someone offers you vodka. Right. I think then they might make you play Russian. No, I'm kidding. Okay. It's not. Okay. But you will hear such stories. Okay. So I hope that this is clear. That please avoid these type of and there are hundreds such examples. Right. So for example, bright comb. Right. So this is a manipulated stock. Okay. So you will see. Okay. So for example, this is completely parabolic. Okay. It went up here. 170 and literally like came to 10 rupees. Okay. So it got corrected by 95%. Okay. So it's not even like that. Right. And. And. And. Right. And for example, yes, bang. And be as opposed to what I don't know. Maybe. You will you cannot call this parabolic. Okay. So this is not parabolic. This is like rice. This is not like, you know, like that. Right. So here we were. Right. And. But that's a one on you. Right. So there is no point. Right. Right. So. So. So for example, this is almost parabolic, okay. So this this run up from March 23 to this. This is parabolic. Okay. So March 24. So. Stock went to 2.5 x at such large market cap. This is crazy. Okay. Avoid. If you have missed that run up, then just simply avoid. Okay. So there is no way for us to understand this. Okay. You should not speculate on such. Right. That's not. Okay. You should not speculate on such stocks. A lot of stocks will be there. So I'll leave it up to you. Right. I mean, how you judge it. Uh, my voice is okay. Uh, okay. I hope my internet is okay now. Okay. Okay. Yeah. So cool. So there are a lot of such stocks. Right. So there's no point in me like, you know, taking you through that list. Okay. maximum. So that is incentive, but it is never gonna go through Vкам. One of them I'm telling you. Will bring, aren't we? We need to be able to point forward. Hopefully. Okay. We want to assess your target service. Okay. You know, last week, I was, having my major 이거를 and for a few weeks, we have some Animal feed reward these week. Against también benefits. This program shows when we have these Koreans Except, We don't want them to give us the prices. This happened at small cap mid cap market itself made no sense. Okay number three There is the trend has been exhausted Okay, so for example we are on an uptrend and that trend exhaustion has taken place because those curves have changed so you Sell it. Okay number four. You are trying to move your portfolio or reject your portfolio Which means what that for example? I'll tell you how much you're looking for The June lagare then a vessel here and I'm not equal to sell also so I want to shift my money from mutual fund to direct stocks So then you start slow you first cut 20% of positions in mutual funds. You buy direct stocks, whichever stocks you like, okay? So that's another reason to sell Final point is you sell because you need money. Okay, so that's completely okay here you start with selling overvalued assets first Then you move then you sell fairly valued assets subsequently, okay? You do not typically sell undervalued things Your best friend in all of these is your patience that if you're patient you will always get great opportunities to buy You will always get great opportunities to sell but if you're a desperate person right who only knows like SIP in mutual fund then yeah, it's just bad, okay? So like you will always feel that always to unnecessarily invest money I have always maintained Investing is an opportunity game the If sensible opportunities are there invest if sensible opportunities are not there To not invest there is no pressure on you for investing let it rot Okay for like one year two year money and all that Warren Buffett is also sitting on cash no so So it's a good idea right? I mean it's not as if that he's making any money on like you know his cash right so he also does the same So whenever the markets it's clearly overvalued be 100% Invested when the market is completely overvalued at least cut 30 40% positions Most of the time the market will be fairly valued, okay? So those ups and downs will not be that much so most of the times it will be fairly valued So there you have to capital rotate, okay? So this is where we will close the selling class, okay? Maybe I'll take like two questions right and then we will proceed from there Okay, she got I'm not sure whether you are continuing on more on technicals, but I wanted to know that if These are brokers in all give time targets three months may Some make some out of return or how is all that calculated or how do you gauge that? That's not my headache, right? So I mean I'll do whatever I know I'll bat the way I know how to bat now what broker's are saying or something like I Know 90% of the time the target are false So don't ever buy like so just simply look at like you know whatever targets have been met, okay? So they Z news will go up with them. They can 518 are you right? So you'll go mad right? I mean have high frequency trading We then also you'll not be able to keep up with Z news or CNBC hours because that's the situation, okay? So like even Jane Street will not be able to So See our job is to simplify investing our job now is not to over-complicate investing I can also teach you like you know 500 new techniques, but what's the point at the end of the day? You have full-time job you can maximum give it like 15 20 minutes to the market So in that 15 20 minutes can you take educated? Actions that's the intent with which I have taught this course otherwise I can teach you like you know 50 more techniques of technical analysis, but will it help no? I've taught you the most powerful ones Okay, so all right So for an individual stop to decide whether it's overvalued or no we have to rely on SM a technique right? For anything that's called as trend riding slash momentum For individual stocks we first look at the quality of the asset We look at three or five year ten year time frames We look at trends we look at channels we look at resistance supports if you're doing these four or five key things And then it gives a very good understanding of what is overvalued versus undervalued But for individual stocks how three five and ten years returns Can be used for example up estimate. Go over like for example Let's say Tata Motors, okay, so let's look at like how much returns has it given in ten years so ten years ago It used to be at five fifty eight okay five sixty so Tata Motors is the wrong stock because you know It's not it does not pass my quality checks. I'll not even analyze. Let's look at HDFC bank. Okay So here I like ten years. Okay, so what was the stock price ten years ago 500 okay? Now it is 1700 so it has gone three X in Ten years now how much have the revenues profits gone up by From 2015 so 2015 by the king of 50,000 grow revenue. That it has gone six X, okay net profits have gone seven X and stock prices only gone three X Oh This is like commons and so right here when she times or other she times ago, right? So that's a simple point. So this is one. So this is on a ten year basis now you do like five year basis It's a what is happening five years. So you avoid like parabolic things so just to Streamline the flow right so here five years how much return has it given it has given 1300 1700 so almost 35% okay in five years. Okay now how much have revenues profit changed from 2019 It has 250 times profits have almost 300 times 300 percent three X and Stock is only a 30 percent so to cut the long story short at least from a fundamental basis it kind of adds up Okay, then you look at finally you look at that trend riding so you go here you go on Supercharts you go to HDFC bank, okay Now Then you open up the I don't know why I like my reading view is not working properly I'll see okay, so this is your trend, okay So now what is a good trend what is an up trend? So this is still an up trend so we keep on retaining it right So this is also turning this is also turning so we'll not sell it as of now, okay now it might very well happen that You know this black line for example Okay, this black line for example moves like this this blue line for example Moves like this and that trend continues so we keep on riding this entire trend from here up until like maybe how many other years it continues So this is where we will We will be able to truly benefit because if we sell to all it's also huge Everyone gets it Exactly Okay, and one unrelated question to selling or this Increased money two percent discount I saw that message, but if you already have signed up How can we get that? Check with the ingrating. Yes, that's not like my headache My headache was to get to you guys discount which I've gotten how you engage with them arms about croak conference calls zoom call do everything Okay, so yeah, okay, so they will give you discount if you are my spoon. Yeah, not an issue. Okay Cool, so I hope that this is clear to everyone right now. Let me like for the next few minutes. Let me just quickly cover like some Yes, I'll take the question towards the end, okay, so Okay Okay, now let me just quickly comment on this slide. This is an important slide. Okay, idea is that if I'm looking to make 12 15% returns consistently on my portfolio 1520 plus what is it or what are like major moves I need to do? Okay, if you're looking to make well to 15% Very easy technique just stick to nifty 50 Sensex NASDAQ S&B 500 Pure, okay, those by blue chips by mutual funds by index, okay, so these are your best instruments to generate 12 to 15% Okay, if you generate 15% consistently you are beating 95% of active fund managers Okay, can you beat it? Yes, we have already had that conversation Why can you beat it because you can do something called as step up and step down SIP? Okay Now what is the meaning of step down SIP? Sorry step up SIP? So if we are in a downtrend Right, what do you do you do step? Up SIP if we are in an uptrend what do you do we do step? Down SIP what is the meaning of step up SIP that see man kiss you low on an average you invest one lack Step down SIP means that you don't invest more than 70 80 K Okay, whatever 30 K you have saved you save, okay, you wait for a downtrend here. How much do you invest you invest 1.3 lack? Everyone with me Okay, nothing complicated, okay, very simple nothing you know no complications here, okay? If you can also channel trade now that will allow you to book some profits on nifty all that stuff So that allows you to capital rotate then market will always give you opportunities to rotate capital Okay, add blue chips for example HDFC bank. It's on an uptrend, okay? So now you can enter that trend early Benefit from it, etc, etc. So that really helps so just play around with index and blue chip the risk level is very low And you can still generate an alpha, okay, so this is a very sustainable way of making returns, okay 12 to 15 percent Which are very good returns. There is nothing wrong. You're you are beating real inflation in the Indian economy By 3 4% right and you are sorting out your retirement, okay, so everyone with me on first strategy Then then comes second category of equal I'm not here at 12 percent 13 percent of all three things. I want 18 What can I do so I want somewhere on like 15 20 percent you have to have like at least 30 to 40 percent of direct equity portfolio Okay, this is what I target Okay, I don't want to get out of here 20 percent is this or no, this is my target. I'm very happy with it now Why am I happy with it? It's very simple Please remember my question from the first class that how much money do you need to retire? Okay, or when can you retire right so for example, let's say hypothetically Hypothetically I think it's a low my see portfolio is under CR plus okay, so it is right. I'm not getting now What do I need to do right I need to protect it? That is my strategy one that my principal loss neonatry I cannot run really fast with this portfolio. This is a lot of money for me. Okay And I need to at least generate like 10 percent CGR to cover inflation And on the rest 4 percent, okay, I can live off Okay, so if my portfolio is generating 14 percent 10 goes to inflation 4 percent goes to my expenses Okay, which means that 4CR is my early expense, okay? So if I'm experiencing this much, it's great, okay? So this gives me a power of spending for CR in inflation. It is a stud Thumbs and still retain that hundreds year portfolio, okay? Now you don't need hundreds here, right? So I like honestly even I don't worry about like making money and all that know For me, I mean, I think my early expense will be somewhere around once here Okay, because I travel a lot so between one one and a half years so that I'm more than happy So if I had 25 CR I can technically retire, okay at this equation everyone understood. Oh, okay? So 25 CR and I have like a lot of fixed expenses in the way that I own like And honestly, I recently started adding like lifestyle Goals to my living right so for example the lifestyle goal is that for example I own a house in Thailand, okay, so I love I like Thailand, which I have a house there. I like south. I have a house there I have a place so this place is rented, okay, so this is like a very nice apartment, right? So I live here maybe six months right a year, right? It's my family lives there six months, but you know, rents are poory then you are the Salwar Geek, right? So that's wasteful expense, right? But because I can take it so it's okay with me, okay? Now many of you will say that you have to be here when we go to the other and like the way you didn't all that When you have a so this is like my luxury, right? So this is where I spend money on I don't spend money on cars and No clothes, I don't know how to pay for a lot of Japan and all that stuff So I don't bother too much. I just buy like Thai Kurtha and Indian Kurtha's that's it, right? So I have like you know 30 of these type of P-shirts and that's it, right? So like it's Simple, right? It's simple to pick so that is my expense, right? Come in traveling from one place to the next I enjoyed doing that because it's also aligned with my work Okay, so I get to meet like a lot of investors It enhances my knowledge. So It might look expensive actually are spending like one one and a half sr a year like living this lifestyle But I'm still frugal for example. I did not rent a property in Dubai, okay? I rented a property in charge of now if I were to rent this property in Dubai I would be spending close to like two crores just on property rent not getting okay with this type of view But in charge, I'll get it at one fourth to the bride of the thing Okay, so it's like you know awesome, right? So I'm still frugal, right? But I have a very good understanding of how much money can I expense and still retain my portfolio and somewhat grow it Okay, so that's the idea of retirement So I hope that that gives you a sense or insight into retirement planning, okay? Now for me therefore targeting this 15 20 percent is pretty good Okay, so I would say that if you are making 14 15 percent returns Excellent. There is nothing wrong in 15 20 percent returns. It can be done in a very sustainable healthy way, okay? Now here what is the first thing you need to have at least 30 to 50 percent portfolio exposure directly in stocks Okay, so for me I do like 50 50 50 percent index and 50 percent direct stocks Now if there are excellent opportunities, I'll go to 90 percent direct stocks also. I do not mind doing that So I'm very flexible, right? And for me, it's always about buying high quality asset at a decent price That's what I'm more interested in. I'm index agnostic. I am Stock agnostic, okay? So that is very important, okay? Number two, I always think about KC boss. My other money is like this now, okay? Right, so for example, I buy Google right now, I percent, okay? So I'm building like close to a two million dollar portfolio in the US So if I that's the rough amount so how much can I invest so I can invest a very brief 100k on Google, okay, so I'll I'll always have the back of my mind that if Google falls by 20 percent from my By-Price, what is it that I will do? Okay, and having the answer that I will stop investing in Google is also good answer Okay, there's nothing wrong, okay? Because if it falls for example, I'm buying Google mostly at 28 percent down, okay? If it corrects by another 20 percent, this is my stop loss in a way, right? I will not invest beyond this I might even pull out money after this looking at the business side of the equation if that kind of makes sense But always have a prep strategy of handling this 20 percent fall and this 20 percent fall strategy only comes into the equation If you truly understand the asset that you are buying which brings us to a very interesting conversation that do you think that nifty will fall um Buy more than 50 60 percent Because you're buying it and I'm minus 16 now right? So 36 percent fall be over the ball very follow the so do you think that nifty will fall by 36 37 percent From its top I don't think so what is a more likely scenario That nifty goes sideways. I and R depreciates, okay? So your real return is still 0 or maybe negative But nifty fall in absolute terms you will not see At minus what the even if that happens there will be a sharp v-shaped recovery the way it happened in 2020 Okay, so that's the Thesis now when does this thesis change on nifty 50 If If India is in a secular decline, okay? So for example, flaws are not functioning and all that stuff right? I mean a lot of like complications so if India is in a secular decline There is no growth happening at all right It's becoming a really bad emerging market even marketing is not working It is right now one good thing about India is that we market things really well right? So that's great for investors There is like a massive marketing team at Kujibir, the UPI by the way, I mean Dubai which function in the years because I'm a UPI near right so like that's the image that I had before coming to you Dubai, the Dubai, I'm going to any card what could be in the world and just Low at the same time, say, it's like cash Nikolai Katskar, they're not all that By Dubai does not require UPI payments because I credit card works everywhere, okay? So credit debit cards, okay? So we do you do not require it, okay? So that's the bottom line, right? But the point is that it's great marketing, okay? But if the marketing stops then that I don't know like that's a point of Contention, okay, but I hope that this point is clear Here some advanced techniques that you need to definitely do is capital rotation Sentiment analysis for example today there is a lot of bullish sentiment on gold. So am I buying gold? No Why because my target rate is 1520 percent growth So gold does not form a part of my growth asset anymore at this juncture, okay? I cannot expect to buy like extremely great sentiment everyone is running after that asset Then I'm chasing an uptrend right? I mean and here the chances of a loss is very high or a chance of a consolidation It will definitely not give like 15 20 percent run up, okay? On a long term basis So I will not touch this, okay? Now you'll say that okay. I want to generate like 20 percent What is it that I need to do? Okay, then I will say that you have to have a lot of small midi cap unlisted Exposure you need to basically have approximately like 40 to 50 percent at least Exposure to these two x3x stocks. They can come from unlisted segments They can come from small and mid cap segments. It can be small and mid cap index Now at this stage, I'm not very confident of picking small and mid cap companies in India It's very very speculative now. Why because there's a lot of dhanle bhaji and you know non opaque information on small cap Midi cap stocks Jen Sol being a latest example net outright the entire book Is like cooked up, okay? In a way same thing happened with With a company called as bright com group you can search so I made a video right even before sebi had Audited the form right so I made a public video explaining how Bright form is running a scam, okay? So you can search akshad bright com and you will see that video So there are massive corporate governance issues in small and mid cap companies, okay? So I will only have handful of those companies What I've started warming up is the idea of unlisted stocks for example At least like like Ritesh Agrawalke kuch to publiclaces, right? I mean if Oyo does some scam at least the founder is publicly visible He'll get a lot of it hit, okay NSE right. I mean it's a good unlisted company, right? So if something weird happens with the company at least there is like someone liable Of Jen Sol kuch karkinikal jai right now for an adding up, you know xyz pipe company does something weird It's very difficult, right? So therefore I have started looking at like More visible slash table business with brand value if you can buy them early it kind of makes sense, okay? So for example swing right now that's a very well known company well good face And still not publicly listed so I bought it then, okay? So I would rather do like I would rather consider unlisted space as small cap mid cap space And it kind of makes sense right from that angle. So I will add whenever I get an opportunity to do that, okay? Uh, okay tax arbitrage is these are great because this automatically jacks up my return to like instead of 15% Now I start making 18% which is great and free focus on a right so that's really good, okay? Managing cash flows this is very important this I've started realizing more that having rental income having Cash flow properties it allows me to do two things number one. It allows me to buy things on a downtrend because I'm getting Consistent cash, okay? And that's one second. I can mortgage these assets in a complete crash and raise money against it Because these are income generating assets you got my second point that for example if I have Let's say 10 properties across goa and Dubai and my debt is zero Then where do you think I can take debt? You know 2020 crash like situation I can go to a bank say very many properties. I have an excellent credit history Give me like I guess my 20 properties 20 grow loans now. What do you think I'll do with that loan? I'll buy 20 more properties, okay? So like that's what I would do, okay? So I'm waiting is that you give a little crash. I so then this is called as mortgage Leveraged financing. This is what I do on my hedge fund to be honest, right and It's high risk high reward game, right? But this only makes sense if you're not over leveraged, right? So for example If my cash flow for example is let's say you know, here is let's say 20 gross then the maximum debt that I will take is like you know 50 gross, right? So that's Yeah, so that's what I will say, okay. I hope that this point is clear I have a different new public unless you have to disclose their financial Uh Very valid point, but even publicly listed companies are throwing whatever data they feel like, okay, for example um Sathya right now Sathya was one of the top 10 companies in India entire book was cooked, okay Um, so not necessarily true now again. I'm giving you an exceptional example here, right? Now when it comes to bottom line being that see either reporting standards in India or not that high, okay Why they're going to be listed key why they're going to be listed key so it's not as if key uh, yeah, so Internal books are cooked up really well. Yeah, so it is right. I'm not so what do you think about mom earth? Okay, so What what do you guys think about like uh, patium, okay? That's the part and parcel of every startup that they will for example first and foremost try to get a lot of revenues Then they will try to you know book profits early reported that way. This is happening at every firm So what I'm trying to tell you is that this is not just swiggy oyo ola Story At least the product should make sense at least like you know some assets should be their nica So it's it's there with everything right so and therefore I'm saying that these companies you have to treat them like a small cap I'm not saying that you know, these are like etuls or like you know HDFC bank type of companies right even HDFC bank maybe right when they might be maximizing profits And you know sort of doing all that it's just that the extent of that is less. Okay Okay, all right, uh, okay, so I hope that this point is clear that these are major broad steps that you need to take in order to make these type of returns Okay, now comes portfolio by age many of you say that here and odd I'm like 25 you tell me like portfolio It does not nothing to do with it your portfolio will go through three steps. Okay, one is called as liquid wealth step Stage two is called as liquid plus cash flow step Stage three is called as liquid plus cash flow plus life state. Okay, now this might happen when you're 10 years old This might or you have inherited like you know, like kind of 1500 crores worth of stock from your grandpa Narayan Murthy right so that you might be five and yeah, that's separate You're already at stage three now you might be like you know 60 with a lot of obligations So then you have stood yet stage one, okay, whatever typically it devices that if I've just started investing Then If you're young, okay, so this stage here majority of your wealth should be liquid. Okay, so 25 lakhs should be pure liquid wealth It could be in index stock markets usual funds FD's Anything okay, but it should be liquid liquid means that you can pull out the money really fast, okay If you want the money tomorrow, you get it to move. Okay, so this is very important. Don't even think about anything else Till the time you hit this number basic number, okay Once you have more than 25 right so it might be between 25 lakhs to 50 lakhs to 75 lakhs, right Then what do you do? Then you at least keep 60% of your wealth liquid 60 70% of your wealth at least liquid, okay Up even in stage two, okay Now idea should be to get to one crore of liquid wealth, okay, once you do this then you start focusing more on cash flows, okay At least first cash flow asset you should have now first cash flow asset could be E for most people it would be a property Which gives you rent, okay Some of them might own a blog give log A business It could be a book that generates a royalty It could be any of these things, okay, so it could be any of these things right Whatever you sing for majority of the people this might be a property These are not dividend-wing stocks, right? dividend-wing stocks are liquid dividend-wing stocks do not have a fixed supply if you say that hey, I do not have a property I cannot buy a property own some btc if you don't trust btc it's fine own some little bit of gold, okay These are fixed supply assets Okay, and owning fixed supply assets When you are at that stage do is absolutely critical in a high inflation country like India if you're not owning Cash flows slash fixed supply asset. It's a problem, okay If you can't buy it in Bangalore it's fine buy it in Bangalore, okay If you can't buy it in Bangalore by somewhere else whichever like to you if you can't even do that by agricultural land Okay, so wherever which ever stayed you off from like a little bit, okay, but own some fixed supply assets It's critical. This is a critical lesson that I've learned in the last three four years I was lucky also that I started buying a lot of properties from 2021 to 2021 Massive purchases. I'm very happy with every single unit that I've purchased right Very happy with that decision 100% standby, okay, so Because the first step Is and here you need to understand the concept of government money and retail money, okay? Wall street money and mean street money the entire goal of the money system is Government when you do a mutual fund who controls the money government how we will instruct LIC That's the point okay now then comes that okay if you invest money in gold ETF who controls that money government, okay if you buy You know so can be a summary of the use deny EPF NPS XYZ All that money there literally money can be divided into two okay either it is government control or does not government control, okay What is not government control land? Land is also government controlled in a way, but it's less government control government cannot come tomorrow and create a special law To take off your land, okay, it's very difficult, okay So on a scale of one to ten it's very difficult for the government to take and freeze your land so to say okay So it's fixed supply asset, okay, number two gold if you have physical gold in your territory Okay, so can government come and take it very difficult cannot theoretically take it in as it can do anything it has army in its control So you can of course like you know grab your gold also, but very difficult to do okay now Say any as a gold grabbing through you see India's you can be here, right? So I mean I'm from warrior so do that This India gets a truck and you know gold, right? So they read about that right? So no so that was the case, okay So it used to be the case, okay, so that is there Bitcoin, right? If you have physical if you have Bitcoin on your hardware wallet can government take it? No, yeah If you are rich if you are a three-search five-search plus guy Start thinking about tax residences start thinking about efficient tax structuring Understand how tax structuring works pay for this advice if you have to pay someone not me I don't do this work, right? But sit with someone who understands can explain you all these points, right help you Structure your taxes properly. It's worth it, okay? I have personally spent like on one-on-one consultations Understanding where my tax residency etc would kind of make sense. I've spent close to five lacks getting that consultation Okay, so and I'm very happy with it because it has saved me more than like you know four or five crores of taxes already So which is crazy, right? So it's definitely worth it if you are at that scale do it, okay? If you are thinking about next generation if you have young kids etc etc Very important to think from their angle where are they going to get opportunities Where they are going to get high quality jobs? You have to start making those moves, okay? So that's it. That's where I'll stop this, okay? Now we'll take a five-minute break. So we will come back at five of six, okay, and then we will do the US stock investing class, okay