Transcript for: Live Session IV - Business Analysis Part 1 -
Transcription Date: 2025-03-30 02:34:33.279596
==================================================

 Yeah, etc. And there is a reason why most of our industry will grow because we are an emerging economy. Okay. So our size of finance, right banks are growing in India. No, no problem. Okay. Tech one could argue is growing in India. Like Zomato Swiggy is growing in an economy is like what four trillion dollars or something like China is like 18 trillion dollars. So China can comparison may be like one fifth. Okay. So that's so therefore like I mean we are growing from a smaller base. Okay. But the sign of a good industry or the first key thing that you need to understand is that is it a good industry? For example, many of you get excited to be solar menvest. Okay. Now is the solar. solar industry. Growth rate in India just type and see. Okay. Yeah. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. When the solar energy market has projected to grow at a C a G R of 13.4. Okay. Now this is good right. So this could be one of your industries that you could consider. Now I'm not giving it a pass. Okay. This is like literally like first filter that we are looking at. Okay. It's not like okay. Growth rate in the industries. I so you buy it. Now why because these are these also come with their own risk. For example, when we are looking at solar industry, they are very high capital intensive industry to make this 13.4% growth rate. Right. How expand their business or grow at this rate. You have to invest a lot of capital. Okay. But banks might grow without investing that much capital or FinTech firms might grow without investing a lot of capital. But here, the first key point that you need to understand is that please don't grow. Please don't go to industries which are not growing at a fast scale. Okay. This is one. Second key aspect is value migration. Now value migration means that where is value moving? Okay. For example, if you consider PSU banks in the 90s. Right. Now basically they held like almost 100% of the banking business. Okay. 890s or early 2000s private sector banks came. So where did the value migrate from from here to here? And therefore something like HDFC, ICIC, I have bank etc have outperformed stocks like SBI and all that. Okay. So you got the concept of value migration. Now where is now for example, if we consider IT industry. Now will value come into this industry or the chances of value going out of this industry high. Now that's a point for further discussion. But this value migration concept is very important from that lens. Okay. For example, if you consider a Zomato. Okay. Many people will think that you know there is no value or more this company has. Right. Now someone wrote a Twitter post also. He's a matter of a Sakeya mode. I mean, or you just have to like get drivers and all that. The point is that they have like 8 million drivers right on their platform, which is crazy. Right. So that itself is a mode. Okay. Now. Do you think that people are going to order more food in the future, right. Setting or setting at home or people will become very health conscious and not order food, right. etc. So is value going to migrate to Zomato or not? Right. That's the question if you're trying to answer. Then you have to think of this value migration thing. What does Zomato started doing recently? Right. So now this is an entirely new industry, right, which is a risk and which Zomato has opened up. They started like 10 minute delivery, right. Two years ago. That has become like really big, right. So value migrated more towards things like Zomato. Now if you are in UA, you would have heard of like an app called as noon, right. So noon app delivers what? It delivers pretty much everything. So Zomato can start competing with Amazon also correct. If they want to, right. For example, 10 minute delivery up laptop, 3 than I go right now the chances of value migration into Zomato is higher or chances of value migration out of Zomato is higher. I would say into Zomato is higher, right. So this passes like the first key test, right. So this is how you would analyze or do like a top down approach every year with me. Okay. And if you do these two things, think about it from a growth rate perspective. And second from a value migration perspective, you will have a clear answer that with this industry seems to be good. Okay. For example, 2020, right. What happened right in 2020 on the line education. Value was migrating into online education by 2022 when COVID was done. What happened? The value started migrating out of online education. Okay. So this is going back to classrooms. They said that you know what? This is not replaceable. So changes happens in business fast and these are very, very prominent and important changes that that happens. Everyone with me. Okay. So this is literally point number one, right. That you need to be aware of. Okay. Second, very quick analysis that you should be doing is your point of entry. So yesterday I had spoken about point of entry aspect. Okay. So a good case study or a good example that I can give you is something like camps. Okay. So for example, camps I made like 100% turn up right and many of you and then I sold it. Okay. So let me just quickly pull up CDSL camps of Koi B. I'm in both same. Okay. Now, if you study like camps stock right from 2020, okay. And what do you will notice is that camps gave 2000% turn up. Okay. CDS. This is CDSL not camps. It gave 2000% turn up. Okay. So it gave like one rupee invested became 2000. Okay. Then how much has it corrected since it has corrected 38 39 40% right. So if you analyze post COVID right or around COVID, it is still and 1100% up. So it is this has gone up 11 times. Correct. Everyone gets it. Okay. Now there are two variants to this story. One is that C boss. This is corrected by 40%. So I should go and buy it now. Okay. Another point is that C I'm a long term investor. I'm investing for at least five years. If I'm putting money here, I need to think about it from a five year perspective. So on a five year basis, if I look at the five years because if I'm a long term investor, now what is the meaning of five year basis that at least I'll study the past five year data right. So on a five year basis, this has gone up 11X. Now, if you don't know any finance, economics, etc. What is the what is like a natural way of justifying this that okay, this stock deserves like an 11X. Very simple that okay, if it's revenues have gone up 11X or if it's profits have gone up 11X, so 11 nice, I at least five X five X. So then also it's fine. Okay. Then it kind of makes sense. But if that is not happening, it's a problem agree. Right. So let's quickly check this right. So here we go and start analyzing. This is CDSL, no, so CDSL, so CDSL, we go. We go profit and loss. So what was the situation like in 2019, right. 200 say five times over, right, like a four times over, in fact, right and profits have gone 115 to 420. So three times over. So okay, so profit revenues are going up 3X, 3X, 4X, but stock price is going. 11X despite 40% correction. So would you call it undervalued? Not really, you will not call it undervalued overvalued, I don't know, but definitely not undervalued. That's the best you can do. Okay, so then you start looking for signs of undervaluation, right. He can go. So I mean, maybe like if we look at peak, maybe it's undervalued there. Right. So let's go and study the P of CDSL. Okay. Like absolute P just like a random 46 copy is not cheap. Okay. So that's one. Now what is the meaning of P? Right. P is expected growth rate. For example, for companies that are growing really fast. Okay. You might expect the P to be 90 also. Okay. Some companies have like 1200 P also. Okay. For example, Nica and all right. DeMart has a P of 90 or all close to 100. Okay. So it's not as if he is. But P cannot expand this P can go to 90 also. Okay. This is a possibility. But if you have to think about it, the chances of P going to 90 is it very high, right. Or is the P going to like maybe like 35 higher, right. So I would say that this is more a more probabilistic scenario. Okay. Why? Because then you do like PR comparison. Okay. So you start analyzing. So the type of businesses. Okay. So for example, BSC is like at 70 P. Okay. CDSL 45 P. Cams 43 P. IEX 38. So TK current P case. You can see that. Okay. This is like a decent business. Maybe this is not like crazy high. But it is definitely not undervalued. This is where we can conclude. Everyone with me so far. Okay. And absolute P industry P analysis. K. Was a analysis. K. You reach that conclusion. And then you get the average P over the last five years. For CDSL is 46 and it is trading at roughly the same P. Okay. So then what is it that you are betting on if you are buying something like CDSL today. You're betting on growth rate. Correct. That it keeps on growing at really fast growth rate right. So where do you find growth rate. So you come here. You look at this. So on a three year basis the company has grown at 30%. Okay. On a five year basis this is growing at 30%. Now what is the meaning of 30% growth rate again rule of 72. 72 divided by 30. So this 30. This gives you what 2.2 or something. Okay. It tells you that the company doubles in size every 2.2 years. Okay. So this is the growth rate that the market is currently giving it. Now see now some industries can maintain that growth rate. For example, a company like CDSL you will make the argument that it is a monopoly stock. And because it is a monopoly stock the business will keep on doubling every 2 to 3 years. And therefore, you know, I'm okay like having a growth rate of 25 30. So again, here you need to go and benchmark it to the economy. Because economy grows at 67% right banks grow at 13%. Financial institutions are growing at sorry, whatever like stock market mutual fund thingies are going at like whatever 25% okay. Now a good way to understanding whether a company will be able to take growth or grow at the same rate for example here we are trying to run the estimate. See CDSL growth rate is 25 30% okay. Will it maintain this right yes will it not maintain this okay. So what can you now how do you run this estimate right one way or one aspect that I would look for is that I will try to investigate why did it grow so fast in this range. Okay. So 25 to 30% EGR if it generated in the last 5 years what really happened in the last 5 years. So one thing that really happened was 2020 right the stock investing became mainstream. Okay. So basically for people who don't know what CDSL does basically very in very simple words the more stocks are traded. And this is a central deposit tree right so the more stocks you get delivery so this is stored in CDSL and CDSL charges some commission from the broker. So more is the trading volume more people are getting excited about the stock market the better it will be for a company like CDSL. That's the bottom line okay. Now here what happened right so for example here number of users who invested in the stock market literally went like 4x 5x why did it happen because there was a covid push. Number two something like zero that came right and they disrupted the business model on a click of a button you could grow like you know start investing all that stuff was happening. There was no very few alternates to investing right taxation on equity was much fairer right I mean for example LTCG before 2018 was zero when it was 10% and at that point in time LTCG on real estate was 20% but now they are kind of converging everything. So to cut the long story short there were very clear growth triggers right for CDSL or AMC's growth. Now if we have to work with the argument why will you know this AMC business will grow what will be your argument. Mutual funds okay look at IP got this is a guy people will do a site is no having used to invest okay okay multiple things see I cannot give you like a yes and no answer okay so it's called us black box theory which I'll explain in a minute right but what you have to do is that you. What you have to do is that you have to study different signals okay and the easiest way to understand history is to look at the past okay so you can use this judgment to make an assessment yeah purchase these percent say can it keep on growing for the next three five years okay now. For example right now only 2% of people invest in India stock market now if this number goes to 4% for some reason okay now that's a very healthy positive sign something like CDSL will definitely benefit this will retain. But if there's a stagnation right of this then it's a problem okay so you have to run all these analysis right and eventually reach an answer whether or not you should be investing in this or not okay there is no right or wrong answer different indicators will tell you different things and this is called as black box theory for example if you study macro economics one argument you can make is that you only 2% people invest in India's stock market this number will at least double 4% to each I right but then you look back and figure out you know what what. But only 2% people anyways pay direct income tax in India so like you know where will you get like more people who do not pay taxes but have money to invest in the stock market so that's a both positive and negative okay. So you have to like analyze these signals some will be positive some will be negative some will be negative and eventually you have to make a decision of yes and no and therefore stock investing is an art okay it's not like hard science you cannot like assign a value to this okay you have to make a judgment stock investing is about judgment stock investing is not similarly running a business is a judgment okay. How for example if you run a small caranash of the judgment to spend like 5000 to piece on marketing is a judgment call that you need to make so these are small small decision that you make right similarly there is no yes or no answer that someone will give you right mathematically speaking okay. So this is not something that you can nsdl will be a direct competitor right and so yeah so to cut the long story short this is not hard science that's what I'm trying to tell you so you have to run this top down bottom up analysis and reach like some kind of conclusion okay so anyways let me come back right. You have to understand this right that value migration growth rate point of entry so for example here now what is the comfort level that you have for example you say your under judgment key or my name CDSL they clear right and AMC space will grow at least 2 to 4 will be the least people who are investing in the stock market will continue to invest in the stock market. So it looks like an okay stock so now let me figure out my point of entry so I go to CDSL right and then I try to figure out in absolute terms like what and here I'm trying to answer what margin of safety am I buying okay you can either buy a price correction or you buy a time correction you don't speculate now what is the meaning of speculation versus price correction versus time correction okay. So okay so here you go right you look at CDSL now if CDSL was here okay all time high. What are you doing right even for example just let's just discard this entire thing okay this does not exist we are looking at CDSL here okay on whatever like this date okay. If here you are going and buying CDSL what are you doing you're speculating. Okay why why are you speculating because you're margin of safety is zero why is margin of safety zero because you are buying it all time high are you buying any type of price correction no okay are you buying any time of time correction the short answer is no okay. Okay I delete right every investment that you make should have some kind of price correction or some kind of time correction okay on a wood asset because the quality of an asset is always debatable for example some some of you would say that you know what CDSL right now is overvalued some of you would say that CDSL is undervalued cases to be made for both these guys okay. Which means that. Very much as it's only where there is a clear under valuation okay so I mean where for example private bank ETF and all it's clearly undervalued but if you look at CDSL 100 different things can happen for example NSDL right it might take market share away I don't know like BSC might take something away from so for 624 so almost 6 times it has increased rates profits and it has an abrasion here for whatever reason so we'll not check this 2017 made used to be like 4000 crore right now it has gone to 26 as 3 times increased rates revenues okay so 7% growth rate does not make much sense if you look at the profit growth rate in the last 30% 54% okay. So this is there now can HD can access when continue to grow its growth rate at 54% impossible okay I don't know how they were able to grow it. The reason if you just investigate a little bit of macro economics it was very simple and it goes to the theory of money printing for example how do banks make money by giving more loans when do they give more loans when there is expansion of the balance sheet this is what we studied in class 1 okay. So what is access banks business contingent on money printing okay so that's what it is contingent on that if government decides to print more money increase more liquidity banks will benefit because all the money has to be given via commercial banks okay. Now this is a very simple theory for example if you are sitting in 2020 there was a parabolic fall on the index you will say that okay now quantitative easing will happen and back and all the loans have to be given via the bank. Okay we are going to benefit a lot so you will buy it you will buy banks correct in 2020 just a second guys you guys are able to hear me know some issue. Okay so now see what ends up happening is that this is a sentiment play okay so what ends up happening is that see and I'll just write it right for private banks. For example 2020 you saw a parabolic fall on the market right you know that government is going to do quantitative easing which means what that the balance sheet of federal reserve or RBI will increase they will give money to commercial banks like HDFC access codec all that and their revenues is going to increase their profits are also going to increase why because they have more money to lend their balance sheet expanded from this sides to this size why because money printing expanded from this size to this side all the money is going to be a little bit more expensive. So this is the size to this side all the money has to be given via these commercial banks now if you're a genius you will go and buy all the banks here correct okay and this is where problem happens okay that you are buying a fundamentally sound asset on macro economics and this is the mistake that even I used to make as an investor and I made as an investor with HDFC bank also and I learned okay what ends up happening is that you're not buying any margin of safety because you need to study what the performance of these banks was till 2019 okay so for sure. For example till 2020 till the time it happened okay so what is it that I was buying in 2019 on access bank nothing this was almost all time high right from like if I look at a five year window access bank went from 250 rupees all the way till 750 rupees so in five years it tripled in value we're getting what I'm trying to say I'll just write it okay so for example from here to here okay this was the stock was already on an uptrend okay and if I'm buying the stock here looking at the fact here you do correction well right now feds will expand their balance sheet or I started adding access bank here this would have been a worst mistake for me why because I'm buying what I'm buying 0% margin of safety everyone understand why this is 0% margin of safety because I'm not buying any significant time correction I'm buying an uptrend okay and there is no time correction no time correction has happened in this zone right from here to here no price correction has happened in this zone okay and I'm buying at 0% margin of safety and loading up here okay then what do you think would have happened here the P would have been very high okay so P like for example 45 P you are then the P started to correct and stabilize over time now this high P took how much time to correct it took years to correct okay so it took like seven years to correct okay and now maybe another rally will start okay so this is how typically stocks behave and you can judge it from that P ratio also okay so for example here the stock P in 2019 peak and you are buying was 42 okay very similar to cams cup he's you which I'll write as 45 now the stock is available at 11 P and no one is buying it okay so the point I'm trying to tell you is that access bank was it a growth asset in 2019 yes if you look back at its balance sheet solid asset blue chip company great corporate great management great this great that everything great great great right that revenues increasing yes profits increasing yes price increasing of the stock absolutely yes should you chase the bus no okay so I think what was that film star who gave the dialogue with three things who give each of them you should have only one thing right so like like the bus and train or something like this so I don't know who was that right so there was some movie where there there was a famous dialogue right so and it's true right that if you chase a running bus right you're not it's not going to be useful okay so at any point in time as long as you're not buying so Joe modified bar strategy for us is very simple that you buy some margin of safety if you're buying time direction if you're buying price correction you will not go wrong as long as you're investing for three to five years okay so without creating any implications for you guys because you might guys might be working like day and day out on the stock on sorry in the in your job and you don't have time to track and you will say that boss just tell me like simplest way of creating portfolio I'll explain okay so let me first explain like time correction also and then I'll explain price sorry price correction so in my time correction I'll show okay so for example right the price correction here is what like so just a GDF see if it clear the thing in fact now I'm going to be there right so I'll just quickly show you here okay so from here to here right how much what was the price in 2022 960 what is the price now 1000 how many years gone three years ago okay did the firm post better numbers yes revenues better yes profits better yes stock P 11 yes in each is I got I don't think so okay so is it a great asset now Dubai short answer is yes okay and what are you buying on access bank right now you're buying a time correction okay 28% drop here so this is a much safer asset to own so this is called as value investing okay that you are buying some kind of correction beat price correction time correction and in some cases both correction time plus price correction okay on an asset which is growing in value or in an industry which is growing faster than GDP okay everyone is understanding these points okay good so that's that right and okay price correction you can see on a lot of things right for example HDFC okay HDFC now for example again same story right because the entire industry went into a price correction mode okay sorry time correction mode so for example from here to here 21st it was it was trading at 1570 1600 now it is trading at 1700 so four years gone nothing happened on the stock okay but it's it's wrong to say that nothing happened on the stock okay that's what an amateur would say what has happened on the stock is that it has gone like this now what does the meaning of this okay this is slide upward trend okay so people who traded on HDFC made money people who invested on HDFC lost time okay I'll repeat that statement that people who traded on HDFC made money people who invested on HDFC lost time so when you hear arguments like buy and forget and all that stuff it's it doesn't work okay why because just say they're not saying what they're saying then go stock investing but you're not right and what they will say is that here if you're using like some companies product and you like that product then you just invested and you forget it no that's stupidity okay why is that right because stock market is manipulated okay that's the problem right for example in 2019 HDFC was a great man I access was fine there was no problem with access man they were posting good results everything was great there was no like you know kind of like corporate governance issues the way it happened for ICICI bank Chandakochar issue but HDFC had been a clean bank okay but what happened in 2019 if you're sitting okay as an investor you will look at that we know what banks much you grow to read I'll go and put my money in banks okay so what are you doing you're not buying any type of correction okay now you will say that okay fine with you know you are doing like you know past post-mortem analysis talk about today okay okay so for example today where do you see sentiments being extremely bullish gold okay that's one right what are you buying on gold are you buying any time direction no are you buying any price correction no what are you buying your mind extremely positive sentiment okay so bulk investing absolutely do not do right if you want to invest in gold invest but let's say that your budget of investing in gold is one lack don't invest more than 10 thousand right now okay wait to buy some kind of correction because the asset will go sideways okay or the chances of that asset going sideways is very very high okay hope every ununderstances okay now when does this rules or these rules do not apply now these rules do not typically apply for a really small cap mid cap companies right the smaller the size of the company these rules apply less and less okay so let me tell you the story of noama wealth for example okay or rather let's let me pick something like IDFC first bank okay so IDFC first is easier bank to understand so if you go on IDFC first bank and check the market cap right this is the size of the company okay now HDFC is a hundred and 1.2 lakh per hour okay which is almost like you know what like 30 40 times 40 times 1.5 lakh okay HDFC one this is 41,000 growth okay so IDFC first bank is around 30 times less or smaller than HDFC bank okay now if now what does IDFC first growth rate depends on it depends on branch education okay if it is putting more branches it will expand really fast okay that's what it is okay now what is what about like HDFC bank has it already expanded everywhere it possibly can most of the places yes okay but IDFC first bank is in branch expansion growth it is not available everywhere right for example it might not be if you are living in a tier 3 city or a small village it might not be but HDFC bank would be there okay so what happens is that the growth rate for example if you see IDFC first bank growing at a 25% CHGR if you see IDFC first bank growing at a 25% CHR you might feel that okay this bank is not going to grow at 25% CHR but the chances of it growing faster is higher because it's a small cap on we get when it comes to banking okay typical standard definition of your small cap that has to be less than 6000 growth but in banking context if you just apply brain and look at like from a private sector perspective we can consider IDFC first bank to a mid cap company from a private bank perspective okay what about city union bank okay so city union bank is a private bank right city union bank it is available at a P of 10 it is only 11,000 growth okay if it opens like very few branches also it can expand its balance sheet fast right and is it a profitable bank is it able to grow its revenue all that stuff yes it is growing right for example here is it not as if it is not expanding here is it not okay so this growth rate right now is not great but it can become great with time okay so that's what I'm getting at right that in a positive environment this can grow okay so I hope that this point is clear that you cannot treat like Asian paints similar to indigo paints indigo paints is a smaller company it can grow faster so there you can give them a high P break for example if you take a look at indigo paints and if it is not a winner takes all market right so this 33 P might look expensive to you but because of the fact that this is a small cap company you need to not worry too much about this okay do you guys understand that why don't we worry about too much about P of a small cap company okay because of the fact that a small cap can double its size very quickly it's like my son is five right if I have to do his height analysis so he's like whatever like three feet okay by next year he would have added 33% of his height okay but how much height will I add nothing okay because I'm already six six feet okay so that's the difference between HDFC bag and IDFC first one that's the difference between Asian paints and indigo paints so everyone understood this context that same rules do not apply that PE value sees what I was telling you okay so back to bottom up analysis and top down analysis important key takeaway is that you need to buy some kind of correction okay margin of safety sorry so it can either be a price correction or a time correction I hope this is clear to everyone next point you must have a very clear exit strategy in mind okay and there are two exit strategies one is called as capital rotation one is called a stop loss okay now usually I don't apply stop loss because I don't have the time to track things like contrary to popular belief I don't invest like more than two hours of my time managing my investments every day because it's not as if that I like no sort of yeah it's a very boring job because I don't like looking at like portfolio all day getting stressed all that nonsense okay so I don't look at my portfolio also for days okay but I'll explain both okay so capital rotation is fairly simple to understand right so capital rotation means they say for example okay so a stock goes through different ranges okay so I'll just draw it right so what you will what you will notice is that see this was a range how to draw this range we learn different right we'll learn later like I did not draw it well right so this is touching this point right so this is one a range this is another range okay now this is a sideways range that it touched this it came down touch this came down touch this came down so this is sideways consolidation okay this rectangular box is getting formed okay this is a called as consolidation phase of the stock okay this phase is called as breakout why is it called a breakout because this was the triangle and it broke this channel and it went up okay everyone understood the meaning of breakout and consolidation okay let me just give you one more example so that this point becomes clearer right and what you will usually see is there is consolidation and then there is breakout okay so for example or breakdown so three things can happen for example this is consolidation this is break down this is break out okay this is consolidation this is break out this is break down okay if you expand this this again it comes like a consolidation phase and this is a breakout phase this is a consolidation phase this is a breakout phase this is a consolidation phase this is a breakout phase this is a breakdown phase so everyone understood the meaning of consolidation breakout breakdown okay so therefore I'm seeing saying that if a stock is consolidating now what is the meaning of this it goes up like this look like the condemned up down up down up down so what do you do Okay, you cannot guess. For example, you in capital rotation, the meaning is that you trade this channel. Okay, so for example, if you're buying HDFC today, you have to have a very clear indication of the range, right, where it will, it could potentially move. Okay, for example, right, if you are looking at it on a, and we can, and for this, we can use monthly, or if you're doing, if you are a long term investor, then you can use monthly candles, right, that will make kind of more sense. Okay, or weekly candles, right, and let me just eliminate this and let me tell you how to draw channels first. Okay, we are looking at it on a monthly basis. Why? Because we are long term investors. What you do is that you pick the lowest possible point and connect, right, connect as many dots as possible. This gives you a trading channel. This becomes support. Okay, then you pick these top points and connect them and draw the straight line. So this becomes your resistance. So this is called as a resistance. This is called as support. Everyone understood what is the meaning of resistance and support? Now I'll just zoom in this. But I'll have to draw it again. Okay, so this is easier to draw. Right. Now we are here. So what should you do? Should you add positions? Should you not add positions? Well, it's neutral position. You don't know anything. Okay, if it falls here, what should you do? You should add. If it goes here, what should you do? You don't sell. If it goes here, what should you do? You should add. If it goes here, what should you do? You should sell. Then comes a very natural question. Should I sell everything? For example, if I'm adding let's say 100 units here, how much should I sell here? Okay, sell 50. Okay, if it falls here, add another 50. Okay, so now you have 50, you have 50, 50, 50, you have 50. Right, so you go back to 100 again. Okay, if it goes here, you sell another 50. So you're left with 50 now. Okay, and then it gives a breakout. So this 50 will turn into 18. The point is that you're retaining positions and taking out profits from the market. Everyone understands. And this is a capital rotation strategy. Now natural question comes that no, no, no, no. Okay, for example, I sold 50 and then the market went up. I'll just double check if anyone is on the phone. I hope everyone understood what is the meaning of capital rotation. Everyone got it. Now second exit strategy is called a stop loss strategy. Now this is what traders use. And scope of that is at Tevazi. Now if you have little bit of time and if you have energy to monitor, now that is great. So you can definitely do that and you can do it even on riskier assets. Now for example, let's go to something like let's say, Motilal was for. So, Motilal. So. Now this is this has a parabolic fall. You can see, right? If you look at this, this is literally a parabolic fall. The stock corrected by literally like almost close to 44%. Right. Now what you will do is. So this is on a monthly candle. So number one, you know trading strategies are built either on weekly or daily basis. So let's look at daily candles. Right. So this is daily candles. Okay. And you look here. Okay. Now what you will notice is that see this is a major support. Right. This point. Why because the stock has touched this went up. Touched this went up. Touched this went up. So this is a major support. So I will just draw it. Here. Okay. And right now this is also support. Right. So this particular support where the stock is trading. Right. Here. Now if you are a positional trader, you will say that you know what? I am going to run Motilal. This is the future. Right. I mean, I don't care. Okay. What I am doing is that this is a fundamentally okay stock. What I am going to do is and I am going to invest heavy capital. Okay. So for example, I am getting to buy it here. Okay. And I will invest, let's say for example, if my network is one crore, right. I will invest 10 lakhs on this stock here. Okay. And I will create a two is to one reward system. Now what is the meaning of two is to one towards system that other double. Okay. Right. So I will exit. And if it falls by like a ratio. So for example, the what is in that I'm looking for example, the net if it falls for the brakes, this support so little bit it breaks it, which means you have a fit or me to the right. Is it the stock somewhere here if it breaks this orange line and I will have to track it. Okay. So this is the problem in this strategy that I cannot automate it. And this is the reason why I don't do this much. And that is a good money to be made. Now is there an upside of two is to one on this. The short answer is yes, because for example, the next major sub resistance on the stock is where. For example, it has started to go up the next major resistance on this is roughly here. Right. So this is a major resistance point. So the upswing on this is 13.89% and the downswing right now on this is 8%. So this is almost almost two is to one strategy every year understand. Okay. Right. No, okay. So like, I'll explain it again. Okay. So where are we? Right. So we are here. Yeah. We are here. Right. I'll zoom it again. This green candle. This is where we are finished. Okay. What is the support line for this? This is one support. Now why am I calling this orange line a support? Because the stock touched this. The stock touched this. Right. It went back up. It touched this. It went back up. So it has touched this went back up. Touched this went back up. So this is a support. Everyone got what is the meaning of support. Right. Again, here also touched this went back up. Touched this and this was an inflection point. Touched this went back up. So this is a major support. Okay. Now what I do is that. That I calculate my risk to reward ratio. Okay. And I look for at least. Two is to one or roughly two is to one reward. Otherwise, if it is one to one risk, it is not it is a bad tree. Okay. There is no point in taking it. So I will buy. Right by taking risk. So what will you calculate? You will calculate the next resistance point. Okay. Resistance point happens up. So you齱 me, I am right. So we are here right now. Correct. Now next. Resistance point is this right? So here. Here. Now why am I calling this a resistance point, because the stock touched here went back up. Touched here went back up. Almost touched here. Went back up. Touched here went back up. So, that's here, went back up. So, so on and so forth. So, this is a major resistance point. Here, my reward is roughly like 13.0 something percent. Okay, we might not be able to take a draw here. It will turn out to be roughly 13.0 something percent. Now, at what point should I exit my loss? Right? If it falls to the previous support line. Now, what is the previous support line? So, from here to here, if I calculate, the previous support line is almost 6.5, 7 percent. So, the down, so the loss on the strategy is minus 7 percent. The upside for me is almost 14 percent. So, this is a 2 is to 1 trade. Abhimat Gullaya, 13.0, 2 is to 1.0 now. So, like, Motamoda mat. Okay? So, I hope you got the picture. So, here you have a very clear exit. Okay? So, let's say that you invested 10 lakhs and no, you don't need to subscribe to anything. This is all free. Because I'm just showing it to you for free only. Okay? So, I hope that this point is clear. So, either we do capital rotation or we cut our losses at a stop loss. Okay? Especially on uncertain stock. Now, this is the difference between traders and investors. The traders look primarily at price action. Right? So, price action means they will purely judge by a price. They don't even know the name of the stock. Okay? But in our case, what we do is that we do macro analysis. We do fundamental analysis. And we are going to do a macro analysis. We do fundamental analysis. And we apply this strategy only on good stocks. Now, what does that mean of good stock? At least up screener pejake. Right? For example, if you are looking at Muthilaal, what is it that you will do? You will do a top down analysis. And you will do a bottom up analysis. And eventually, like you have a CDSL, like a case, for example, where you will see you will see that you lost CDSL. I am buying a 35% correction. This is good. Okay? I am going to do it. But the stock is at a 45p. This is confusing for me. I don't know how to, you know, act on this. Right? This looks dangerous. But it's a monopoly stock. Right? So, this is a good point. Right? But it has a very high growth rate 25%. I don't know if you are going to be able to make it. Again, like, I am not sure about that. So, basically, like on a happiness index, where are you? Right? Are you pessimistic about this stock? No. Is it a good stock? Yes. But it's not as if that this is a very clear buy. So, this top loss strategy or capital rotation strategy, you should apply on these type of undamentally good stocks, where the only question is their growth rate. Right? For example, no one will say that CDSL is a crap stock. Okay? It's a good stock. You are buying it at a good price also. It's not a problem. Right? Same applies for Swiggy, for example. Right? Swiggy. It's a good stock. No problem. Right? I mean, when we bought it at unlisted, we bought it at 360. It went to 600. Okay? Now, it is back to 350. Okay? So, because the entire market time, right? It's not as if that it's a Faldo fund stock and it has no margin of safety and all that. It will say that you had bought an unlisted, right? I mean, it's a good thing that you had listed it. See, boss, like, I cannot go back in the past and buy it. The market would have very well run forward. Okay? There is no fundamental risk on Swiggy and the motto. In the sense that, for example, it's a solid business. You keep on seeing Swiggy delivery guys, no matter delivery guys, delivering like orders. They have a massive moat. It's not as if Adaniji will come and he'll create a fleet of like, you know, 80 lakh riders for something. It doesn't make sense. Okay? So, from that angle, right? Yes. So, VCs will exit Swiggy. I 100% agree. But what is the margin of safety on Swiggy right now? It's 50%. Why? Because it went to 600. Now, it is at 350. So, there's almost a 50% margin of safety. You're buying some margin of safety. You know, Juneau, like that. It's cool, right? For example, pay Tima, Karythiweta, 1000 rupees. Right? And now, it has fallen to 500. Now, you're at a 50% loss. But if you're buying at a 50% loss, right? When the stock has corrected by 50%, you are already bought a 50% time correction. Okay? Sorry. 50% price correction. So, their chances of you losing crazy money is very less. Right? I hope this point is clear to everyone. Right? Okay. I'll just quickly take like some questions. Okay. Okay. Now, someone asked me about Tata Motors. Now, see, the problem with stocks like Tata Motors is the long term viability. Okay? For example, something like, let's say Swiggy is a motto, right? Will you still see drivers on Swiggy and Zomato after two, three years? Yes. Will you still see Tata Motors delivering excellent electric cars compared to Maruti, compared to Tesla, compared to BYD? I don't know. Okay. And that's a big question mark. Okay. That's problem one. Problem two. Swiggy and Zomato. Can it move to new industries? This is called as horizontal and vertical extension of businesses. Okay. For example, they can start selling concept tickets. Why? Because Swiggy and Zomato are very recallable brands. They can possibly take some market share away from Amazon. Can Tata Motors start selling concept tickets? Or what new business can it expand to? I don't know. Like, not much, I guess. Right? So it's a, it's a pure play. Automotive manufacturing business. Okay. So that's a problem. Right. So therefore, like I mean, the wider the mood of a business, okay, they're easier. It is right. So two different. For example, am I more comfortable buying Amazon or am I more comfortable buying Google? I'm more comfortable buying Amazon. Why? Because Google's almost 60% of revenues come from search engine marketing. Like that you go and type Google, Google tell me like good restaurants to eat near me. Then Google will tell you and show you an ad. So Google will make money. So almost 60, 70% 60% of Google's revenue come from that's from search engine marketing. Tools like publicity. I've stopped using Google. It's shit. Okay. So like I mean, I would rather use publicity and get my answers passed. Okay. So anyone people will migrate value migration is happening to publicity not on Google. When it comes to the 65% of their revenue in a way. Right. But when it comes to Amazon, right? It's different. Right. This has a much wider base. Right. So I mean, you have to think of business from a survivability point of view that okay. What which has a higher chance of surviving for the next three to five years. It's major revenue stream. Something like Amazon according to me, right? Google has Gemini ID, but I'm more, you know, I like. Yeah. So call India. We were talking about it. Someone asked me a good question. Let me go to the good questions. Okay. Okay. Good question. Okay. How do we keep track of overall investment gains loss and when we rotate capital. Yeah, the money is not right. Right. I mean, you're getting richer. Is that more important of keeping a track of how rich you're getting is more important? No, no, no. So like stop worrying about all that right. And you will get it on your console PNL. So go on like zero, the hour, whichever account you're using. Go on console and you will be able to do it. Okay. Will you add Swiggy now? I already have decent amount of Swiggy. So I'm not adding more. Right. I'll add NSC share right to be honest. Like I'll write a note tomorrow. Okay. Why? Because unlisted market works slightly differently than listed. But I can say that there is a real time price change on listed stocks. For example, if you're looking at CDSL, you will be able to figure out today's price. But in unlisted space, the price upgrade happens really slowly. Right. So for example, it will show you three old three month old data, four month old data. Right. So that it's not real time price updates that happen on it. Okay. So yeah. So anyways, I'll write a note. Right. I'll let you know. Yeah. Groke is also. Yeah. So I'll let you know, you know, use like. Get like faster response, right? So when I personally like public city, I like the interface. It's easy to read right and all that. So I like public city, whichever one you like you do it. Okay. I hope that this point is clear to everyone. Right. I mean, how to approach all these points. Right. Okay. Now, let me just quickly cover this analysis. So buying margin of safety is critical that you're buying price correction and time correction. And out of and here you will see like very clear bets. For example, just a private bank ETF. Okay. This is at a time correction. Right. Plus it's a good asset. Now, good asset. We have a separate class. So the next class that we do next week. I will literally just one class. I'll explain what good assets are. Okay. So this has like 18 fundamental features. I'll take you through it. Okay. So that will help you judge whether private money. TF is good. Swiggy or good. Tatum, Otas is good. So not right. At least you'll get an understanding. Okay. So this is like clear by now. Most of the time almost 50 60% of the time you have to make a judgment call. Okay. So again that, you know, you're the other marrying the story right that okay. Like, you know, how did he marry. Daddy right. Just he just went there. My to once and had to make a decision and he made a quick decision. Okay. That will be for the Shadi right. So that's very quick. Okay. So similarly, again, stocks also you have to make like very quick decisions. Right. That okay. Should you buy. Should you not buy and majority of the times you'll not get like full picture. Okay. That's a reality of practical reality of investing. Most of the time you'll be confused as long as you're buying time correction price correction. And have a very clear exit strategy in mind. You'll not take significant loss. Okay. For example, you might buy something as an experiment right. For example, you will say that. Let's put in a puntering. Right. For example, Swiggy. Right. So you'll open up. Swiggy. Okay. So, why the not. Okay. Okay. So here are Swiggy. Okay. Now it is. Now what is happening on Swiggy? You can very well see that here. There has been a 50% price correction. That's one piece of information. Right. Almost 50%. And there has been a consolidation. Now two scenarios can play out. Okay. One is that it can after consolidating. There can be a break out. Or after consolidation. There can be a break down. Okay. Now what is the problem? Where will you assign probability? You have to do it. You have to do it. Right. So where will you put it? Like I'll put it here. Okay. So break out. Okay. For wide variety of reasons. Okay. So you'll say that you can see boss. I have like one crore lying around. Like and that's like 10% of my network. And I want to gamble here. So what's the smart way of gambling? You invest, right? You invest like whatever 50 lacks. You invest a significant chunk with a stop loss. Okay. Why? Because there is a very clear two is to one trade here. Okay. So this is like one, right? And it's can you say this is the support. Right. So this is it. Again, if you do that analysis. This is a two is to one trade. And therefore it is a. Swingable asset. Right. So I'm trying to teach you like little bit of swing trading. Right. Everyone got it. Why? Right. And also like I mean, even before picking Swiggy as an asset, the asset itself should be good because that will reduce half of your risk. If you. Start experimenting on like, you know, micro cap companies and all that stuff. That's bad because at least Swiggy has some value going for it. Okay. I agree that Swiggy is going through a price discovery. But buying it at 50% margin of safety is a decent enough margin for you. Right. I mean, get any price discovery. You know, right? I mean, for example, even if you check like, like, you know, for example, let's say, pay T and went through like, it's 197 communication. Right. Stop. 197. Pay T and. Yeah. Okay. Yes. Okay. For example, how much value got eroded from pay T. At one point. Okay. So pay T and stock fell by 68%. Okay. And then it went up also from 68% to how much? To here by 225%. Okay. Then it came down again by 33%. And then it is up. So for example, if you would have bought like a 50% right? You would have bought it here. Right. For example, 50% play assuming that you are pay T. I'm the ticki. Right. I mean, for the next three, five years, then you could have potentially exited here. No, this thing. Are you getting what I'm trying to say? Right. Because that two is to one trade kind of makes sense. Price discovery, I'll point 100% agree with you. But I'm not asking you to speculate at the top. I'm asking you to speculate when 50% correction has happened. Okay. And that too with the stop loss. So it's about risk reward equation. I'm like, I don't know like I'm in how your parents will feel that you are taking a gambling class or whatever, right? But this is what like, you know, it is right. So, yeah. Okay. So. Yeah. So you are doing it sensibly. And stock market is gambling. Okay. So I like I cannot like give it a positive spin. Okay. So that's how it is. Right. So I hope you enjoyed the class so far. Right. We'll take like a seven minute break. I'll be back at like 645. And then we will continue further. Okay. Okay.