Transcript for: Live Session IV - Business Analysis Part 2 -
Transcription Date: 2025-03-30 02:49:33.945196
==================================================

 strategic advantage over you. So you're not going to make money where you will make money as well as seconds. We can't do that because we require sophisticated software to do it. We will not be able to bear that expenses. This is done by companies like Jane Street, etc. They have a long term trends. Okay. For example, cup with handle. That's a long term trend, right. Resistance support over long term channel trading. These are all long term or long frame strategies. So long frame strategies work for retail investors. Short frame strategies do not work for retail investors. Every on with me. All right. And you don't have to become like a technical expert. If you pick up a trading book, you will go mad. Okay. Because you will be able to teach you like 5,000 strategies and you don't know which strategy is applicable to you. Okay. So that's the problem. Right. And trading is generally a net negative game. Right. In the sense that for you to make money, someone has to lose money. Right. So longer your time frame. Right. The easier things get for you. Right. So I hope that these four or five points are cleared every on now back to the excel spreadsheet. Right. So what I wanted to cover. Margin of safety. So, someone will exit strategy. Everyone got. Okay. Final point is risk management strategy. Now what is the meaning of risk management strategy? This has to do with the concept of that. Okay. Fine. I invested. Let's say I bought. I bought 50 50. So for example, why is this loaded? Okay. I'll go to this. Okay. Nifty 50. Okay. So this is nifty 50. Right. Now, am I more comfortable? Like, let's say, hypothetically, let's say my net worth is hundreds here. Okay. And I have five CR lying around. Right. Two minute. Now, what would I do? Would I go and buy like Swiggy, buy like Motila Looswal, buy like this? That no. I'll just simply pick this here. Dump it. I'm more comfortable doing this with such large capital. Okay. Why? Okay. The reason is that this I have to track less. The downside potential is limited here. Okay. At higher capital pace, you need to be always cognizant of a concept called as principal erosion. Right. That's one. And second is risk mitigation. What I wanted to teach. Right. So risk mitigation simply means that see, nifty 50 is an asset that the more it falls, the more I can keep pumping more and more money. Right. So this is called as downward averaging. Okay. So you need to have like, for example, in physics, there is a concept of capacitor that it stores energy. Okay. So basically, like on stock markets, there are go to assets which can help you store your money. Right. And it will and it is a like very important instruments. Okay. So for example, I am 100% investing my entire capital in nifty 50, not a problem. Why? Because for nifty 50 to go to zero, what are the odds? There is a point zero 1% chance maybe. Okay. What is the meaning of nifty 50 going to zero? It means India's economy and I will go into zero. Right. So which will not happen. Yeah. Why? Because what does this nifty 50 level of 26,000 indicates? It indicates that if you do a summation, there is a very strong correlation between GDP of a country and its stock market. There is a correlation. I'm not saying it's a 1 to 1 correlation. In a market like India, that correlation is more in a market like Japan, the correlation is less. Okay. But in India, what happens is that there is almost a 70% correlation between GDP and stock market. If GDP goes up, stock market goes up. If GDP goes down, stock market goes down. It does not go up and go and up and down on a straight line. But what ends up happening is if the GDP graph is something like this. Okay. Stock market will be will act like this. Okay. So it will follow this curve, but with a lag or a lead. Okay. That's the difference. Right. Everyone gets it. Right. So so GDP cannot go to zero. Right. This is impossible. Right. Therefore, stock market on nifty 50 will not go to zero. This is impossible. Why? Because what is this 26,000 made up of? This is collection of what is GDP? GDP is the aggregation of goods and services produced within an economy. That is a meaning of GDP. Now, who produces these services? For example, these will be companies like TCS with pro, who is producing goods? These would be companies like ITC, etc, etc. They are generating revenues. It gets reflected here. It gets reflected here. All this gets added to the GDP and GDP and stock market have a poor relation. Okay. So back to square one that hey, nifty 50 is like a solid risk management strategy. If you are getting it 10, 15% cheap, just pump it. What is the risk mitigation strategy for nifty 50 downward averaging? The more it falls, the more spare money you have, you can close your eye and keep dumping money onto it. Okay. You will not make a loss because nifty always cut its previous peak. But is it applicable to Swiggy? No. The reason is that Swiggy can go to zero. Okay. So therefore, like that 5% rule that I was explaining you, it only applies to individual stocks or individual assets. Okay. Does it apply to semi-conduct or index? No. semi-conduct and index can also go to zero. I don't know. Like I'm so I'll not like trust, like I'll trust NASDAQ, SMP 500, but I'll not trust like semi-conductor index to that level. But definitely I'll trust semi-conductor index more compared to Swiggy or any other stock. So I hope that this point is clear that what is your risk mitigation strategy? So there are two risk mitigation strategies that for example, when it comes to something like nifty 50 and it depends on which asset you are investing in. So for example, if you are investing in nifty 50 then you can close your eye and do downward averaging. Okay. For example, you started investing here, right? You invested 10 lakhs. Okay. Market failure, right? It became 8 lakh. You invest like and your losses minus 20. The moment you top it up here, let's say that you invest another 8 lakhs, right? It becomes 16 lakh. What is like your portfolio instead of reflecting minus 20%, it will start reflecting minus 12% or whatever the math is. Okay. So now you have an alpha over the market, which is minus 8%. Are you systematically beating the market surprisingly? Yes. Okay. So you're beating the market by 8% here. Okay. Yeah. And therefore you will perform better than 99% of mutual fundigies. Okay. Where I'll show it to you also. Okay. So this is the game, right? On nifty 50 that you can downward average it. Where it comes to index, downward averaging strategy works wonderfully well. Okay. On individual stocks, for example, let's pick motilaal, right? So this is a stock. Now this is available at a deep discount one could argue, right? So it is available at 40% from the peak. Okay. Now should you invest here? I don't know. Like, but what is the, what is your risk mitigation strategy? Is it downward averaging? The short answer is no. You can downward average it a little bit. There are two strategies that you will apply. The first strategy is that you buy in small bulk. Or you buy on at least three dips. At least. Okay. The second strategy is cap limit. So the maximum that you can buy motilaal osf is 5%. That's it. Okay. If it is a small cap stock, the maximum you can buy an individual asset is 2.5%. Don't go beyond that. Let me give you an example. So for example, PDR is a stock on my portfolio, which is 40% down. Every time I talk about that stock, there is massive mayhem, right on the community. Oh, look at the PDR. It is not that the life is over. Ishadi, you're done. What are you? So they because you invested maybe like 70% of your capital on one stock because you were greedy. Okay. That's the point. Right. I always said that invest not more than 5% on a stock. Okay. Now if you are greedy, right, you are like, Lalaji Lalaji, right. So then there's nothing that I can do. Right. If you're greedy person, I am not the right guy to like sort of engage. So you have to be a broad guy. Okay. You make rule. You follow it. Okay. You don't violate that rule. Yes. Ask me how much money I have on HDFC back. 5% maximum. That's my highest stock holding. Okay. How much money do I have on Hindustan Unilever? 5% okay. How much money I have on Noama? 2.5%. How much money do I have on PDR? Maybe like 1.5% right now. Okay. No single stock in my life I have purchased where my stock holding has gone up by more than 5, which brings us to the RSU debate. Any stock at HDFC life also I don't know more than 5% okay. For example, RSU. What happens if for example if let's say one thing is working at like you know Google right and she gets like RSU company there is a stock mill right by Z first and foremost companies are not giving you a favor by giving you RSU's okay. You are getting paid for your hard work right now. Let's say that your entire network is tied to Google. Now, you know, Sundar Pichai ji, so I ain't any bullying any K, you know, what stock is going to take a tank right and I will recover after three years you'll be vibed out okay. That's the problem right. So there is no point in you exposing yourself to that same stock okay. Just buy for Kate if you trust tech buy like four similar stocks and stocks work similarly. Let me give you an example right. For example, you'll see a little bit of recovery happening on camps right. So for example, if you look at it on a weekly candle it will become clearer right. So this is a big green candle okay. So which has been formed right that there was a massive fall right now a big green candle. So you can consider this to be recovery okay. So the stock has recovered from its bottom by how much by 22%. Okay. What about CDSL? Okay. So again, a little bit of recovery has happened from the bottom. How much like 14-15% what about in gel one okay. Again, same thing right. One big green candle okay. How much has it recovered again 18-20%. The point I'm trying to tell you is that stocks of similar industry work like a herd okay. So for example, if cam recovers others will also recover with it with a little bit of lag. If Kotec recovers HDFC will also recover with it. So why expose yourself to corporate level risk now what does that mean of corporate level risk the stories of Chandakur. Okay. Now private sector banks are typically clean they don't work like public sector banks but Chandakur decided to give loans to her own husband the case blew up and HD an ICICI stock fell a lot. Now for some reason you had esops with ICICI bank and you fell in love with ICICI bank. It was stupidity right as an employee to have all your investments with ICICI bank. A much better way is to diversify by HDFC also access also etc. etc. Don't just take for example, even if you are putting five lac rupees on bank and it's like 5% of your portfolio you want to put it on bank put it across four different banks. Okay. Completely okay. Hedge at every level possible. The more HD you are the more diversified you are the better your life is. Okay. That's what I would say. Okay. Okay. It's difficult to diversify with capital rotation for us because of free speed. How do you recommend I have no clue I have not worked with companies that gave me stocks I created my own stocks. Okay. Hedge. Okay. So I hope that this point is clear right hedging my mind. But I hope that this point is clear to everyone that stocks of similar nature behaves similarly right. So therefore it kind of makes sense to be well diversified right. Back to so this is your risk management strategy right on individual stocks etc. And this is called a stop down approach. Here you have not even del deeper into an asset. Okay. Now bottom up approach means that you start looking at from a stock specific basis right that you go and study a particular stock deeply. And the first key question that you and there are like you know two three major questions that you need to answer. And now this is a class that we will do separately. So I'll not I'll take not take more than like you know three four minutes to explain this because we have a separate class coming up. Here you judge the asset quality right and you spend a lot of time doing something called as business analysis. Okay. And technical analysis of the stock right. So for example right business analysis means that for example how strong is the brand what type of mode it has right will it survive for the next five years. What part of the value chain it falls right. Is it a commodity company? Is it a end value chain company? So there are a hundred different things that we look at. So I have summarized that in it. It delayed 18 points. Sorry. And I'll share that with you in the next class right which is which will form the basis of doing business analysis. For example if you take a look at Swiggy. The central question that you need to ask about Swiggy is that is the company going to get disrupted and the primary revenue stream will the company lose that. Okay. Just a second. Just a second. I hope my internet is back. Okay. So all right. So so that's the bottom line right that for example Hindustan Unilever. What is the major risk that you are taking by looking at Hindustan Unilever today? That it might usually like what is the major risk on companies like Hindustan Unilever, D Mart, HDFC Bank, Asian Pains, Monopoly, large ticket, large size companies. No it's price. Okay. There is no issue with the asset. Okay. These companies are going to survive for the next five years. No. Only issue will be that at what price you're buying. Okay. For example, D Mart today if you're buying at a P of 90, right. What are you betting on? You're betting on the fact that D Mart will continue to grow at a very fast pace. Then you'll ask the question that okay boss it's a large cap company already it is like you know one like 80,000 or something. It's huge right. So can it grow at like can it continue to grow at like 20% CAGR or something like that right. If it does not grow for two quarters then you will get a hit. So when should you buy these type of companies at significant time or price correction. Okay. Something like HDFC Bank will not go through too much price correction. It will only go through time correction. Okay. So as long as you're getting to buy HDFC Bank on a time correction you will be fine. Right. That's what I would simply say. Right. What about reliance? Right now is reliance a great company to buy. Probably no. Okay. Why? Because what is the primary revenue stream of reliance oil? Okay. Petro chemicals almost 60 70% of the business comes from there. Right. And therefore it turned to what it turns to geo which is the mirror image of reliance. Right. Which is the tech company. Why did a money started focusing more on tech? Because there was slowing of growth in oil business. Right. That's a problem. Right. That you know there is only like a limited growth that you can achieve. A lot depends on oil prices. It's as infrastructure heavy business. It's not asset light. So what are the expanding to? They are expanding to high profit margin business. Right. So all those points are there. So I'm not so should you like stop buying reliance? No. But you should if you're buying reliance then you should buy a deep discount. A price correction or a massive time correction. Right. So for example, if today you go and analyze like reliance. Oh. Okay. What will you notice? Right. For example, how much has the stock corrected? Right. Stock has corrected. 23% right. And what is the time correction on the stock? The time correction on the stock is this. Right. So for example, from November 21, the price has remained same. So it's a four year time correction that you're buying on reliance. Okay. Who got wiped out by buying reliance or just keep all of the people who are chasing reliance. Right. If you bought reliance here or if you bought reliance here, man, at its all time higher here, you are at a significant loss. Right. So as long as you are buying some kind of margin of safety, you will always have like an opportunity to sort of save yourself. Now is it a good time to add reliance? Possibly. I don't know. Like so to be honest. Like so it's because see, I mean, it's such a big company. What a business analysis will I give you? Right. I mean, it's it's so complex a business. There are so many moving parts. If I like a Gani Baba come and give you like some random Gyan on reliance, do you really think that I would know reliance business? Right. They have like 100 different operations going. I don't know anything about reliance. Right. So I mean, it's so complex complex a business that I can't possibly begin to understand it. Okay. And anyone who is talking like smack about reliance on like, you know, news channels, Kiaviya Kharilo, Yaskar Stoploss, Yaskar Target and all that stuff, no one knows anything about reliance. It's such a complicated business. Okay. That's that's what I would say. Okay. But as an investor, I know how to invest in reliance. I'll only buy it. Like this is a good time to buy reliance to be honest. Like if you're doing it for a swing trade or whatever, right. But typically this is how reliance has always kind of behave. Right. So for example, if you take a look, this is not the first time, right. People who lost money here on reliance, they deserve to lose money. Right. I mean, because they never studied the stock. If you actually go and study the stock, like if you go and study the history of the stock map, where you're going to see it, it will make more sense. Okay. So for example, take a look. There are massive consolidation periods on reliance. For example, from 2009, all the way till 2016 reliance gave zero run up. Yeah. The stock consolidates. That's the point, right. It's for here. For example, 1000 and 38 to here, the stock has consolidated for the last five years. Right. Now can it consolidate for five more years? Yes. So what should you buy on reliance? You should buy both time correction and price correction. So here, because why even in this range, it would have gone up and down, up and down, up and down. So you got an opportunity to exit. For example, if you buy it here, you can sell it here. This will not happen after five years. This might happen after six months, who knows? Okay. But if you buy it here, then yeah, you have just destroyed maybe like six, seven years of like growth that could have come. Right. So a stock like reliance, you should buy both at a time plus price correction. Why? Because history also indicates similar. It's a degrowth business. So therefore, chances of it losing wealth is very, very high. Everyone gets it. Okay. This is the risk mitigation strategy. Simple points. It's not that complicated. It's not as if that you need to create a complicated setup to understand all these things. Okay. Bajaj finance. What's the risk? For example, I'll take the right hand. Oh, Jauju. Oh, that was finance. Just a second. Yes. This is Bajaj finance. Right. What is the risk here? It is at an all time high. What margin of safety are you buying? Nothing. Okay. So this is a problem. Right. It's in a breakout. Right. So basically like one could argue that you have purchased time direction because it's seven eight six two was the 2021 price. Now it's 9000. It's not that much up given the growth that has happened. It's a high growth company. Why? Because loans are growing at a crazy rate in India. Right. So 48% everyone wants loans in India. Right. So this is a high growth company. But for a company that at the size of Bajaj finance maintaining a 40 45% growth rate is a challenge. Okay. So do I book some profits now? Yes. That's it. Okay. So like will I be right? I don't know. Okay. But like with a firm size of like Bajaj finance, you have to book profits. Right. I mean, you cannot expect it to continue to grow at like a 50% CGR. It's like five lakh crores say it will become like five lakh crores. It will become 10 lakh crores by like in another one and a half years. It was really crazy. Right. So that's the bottom line. Right. So here you need to have like some kind of risk mitigation strategy even before you enter a stock. So what's your risk mitigation strategy? For example, if you have zero holding on Bajaj finance right now, should you go and buy Bajaj finance? Answer is yes and no. Right. Yes. It depends on a lot of things. But one key thing that you need to be clear about is your risk mitigation strategy. Right. I'm not buying it because I'm a previous holder of Bajaj finance. I'll start selling it now. Okay. So like throw the other key, right. But I will not like add unnecessarily. Right. Okay. I hope that this point is clear by discussing about these wide range of stocks. I wanted to outline the point that irrespective of the market circumstances, some things will look, some things will be undervalued and some things will be overvalued. Okay. A discounted market. For example, right now because the market has corrected by 15, 14, 15 percent from its top, there are more buying opportunities. So you need to be a net buyer in the market. When the market has hit an all time high, that's the most difficult market to invest. For example, the US market is really difficult to invest because it is almost at its all time high. Right. So the buying opportunities are very few in the US market compared to Indian market. Now does it mean that the story will not change in the next six months? 100 percent it will change. Okay. So even the US market will become viable. Right. It's just cyclicals. Right. So everything is cyclical. So you buy when you're supposed to buy. You don't unnecessarily mind. And that's the trouble with SIP. Okay. So what is the trouble with SIP? So let me now start commenting on SIP because many of you invest money through SIPs only. Right. The right because it tells you save time. It's easy. etc. etc. What is the problem with SIP? The problem with SIP is that you don't know into exit. You have no clue. Right. Because it's killing incentive to learn anything. Right. I mean, see, can I give you a mutual one? I'll look at it later. Right. So why should we learn right about all this? Right. So what's the unless you redeem your units, you're still invested in with that fund. Right. So that's problem one. Problem two is that most SIPs are open-ended. Open-ended means that irrespective of the market conditions, when you can see that the market is clearly overvalued. You're still investing 100% of your money. That's the point about SIP. For example, what is the meaning of SIP? The SIP means that you are regularly investing a certain amount of money periodically on let's say fifth of every month. Okay. For example, if your salary is two lakhs, one lakh every month, you are giving it on fifth of every month. Irrespective whatever happens. This is the meaning of SIP. Correct. What is that indicate if you think at layer two? Layer two means that irrespective of the market conditions, you will continue to invest. Now, you're giving money to someone mutual fund manager. I don't have any option to invest, but you say no, I want you to do SIP. I've already SIP is a great right. So now that poor person will have to figure out like some stocks for you to buy. Okay. So then you will buy it unnecessarily for you. That's the problem with open-ended funds. Therefore, the H1 that I run, it's closed-ended, it's not open-ended. I only take money when I feel that I can make 35% CAs here on it. Otherwise, I do not invest. That's the bottom line. You can't go against the market. For example, if the market is correcting by 20%, you will not make money. You will lose money like 99%. People. That's the point about SIP. What's a much smarter way of doing SIPs? The much smarter way of doing SIPs is that you do something called as step up and step down SIP. So for example, you go here, right on FTI 50. Yeah. Okay. So this is FTI 50. What is the margin of safety today? 11%. Now, if it is more than 5%, you should definitely invest. If you're buying 5% margin of safety, run your 100% SIP. Or at least 90% SIP. If it is more than 10%, run your 100% SIP. If the market becomes more than 20% discounted, right? Invest whatever you can. For example, every two-thallagged allagget, right? And if you don't require that money for the next one, two years, whatever money you are putting, you're putting it for three years. So at least this is the minimum time frame of investing in direct stocks in mutual funds. Okay. So this is called as step up SIP that if the market is going down, then you invest more. Okay. Step down SIP. What does that mean? That you invest less as the market hits all time high. For example, if the market is at an all time high, what do you do here? You at least you maximum do 80% SIP, save 20% on the sidelines. This gives you further to invest here or here. Okay. So if you can't do anything and if there is a single key takeaway that you can take from this course, like, you don't want to go through that hassle, just do this. Okay. You will make money. Like and the goal of this course is money making. So it's not about like, you know, if I able to teach you 200 things or 300 things more about, if you can implement one thing really well. Right. So that itself will give you a lot of money and course was really used. Right. So that's the idea. Right. So that's that. Right. So this is one way of looking at it. Second way of running your SIT is that you save on commissions. Now commissions are poison. Right. I've been stating this. So rather than me preaching, let me just show you my portfolio. Okay. So like, I mean, I have not like generally invested more because I'm moving out of the Indian market a lot of money. But this is a public portfolio that I've created. It is at a CAGR of almost 14.5%. This is despite 11, 12% fall in the market. So basically the CAGR in the market goes back to its pre-wesit. It would be 2526. Yes. How much commissions am I paying on this? Less than 0.2%. Why? Because almost everything that I've bought is index funds. Okay. So the point is that people who make the argument that you need to go to active funds to generate like 14, 15% CA. And then, I'll be a yoga. Even if you're buying like small caps and all that. And this has no small caps now. Okay. So the point being and this CAGR, right? So I X I R, I'll show you. Right. This is on yearly basis over the last two, three years. Right. So what would I've generated? This does not include the COVID fall and nothing of that sort. Okay. So the point I'm trying to tell you is, um, yeah. So the point I'm trying to tell you is that doing pure index funds, doing this step up, step down SITs, just buying nifty, 50, etc. You can generate 14, 15, 15% returns net. Okay. Which is huge for you. Okay. Because if you're generating 15% gross, but paying one and a half percent commission, it's a huge loss to you. Okay. And it cuts your portfolio by a lot. Right. Metadata, I keep on keep on mentioning that metadata tells us that 85% of the fund managers do not beat the benchmark. So how do you develop the discipline to just, you know, sort of do sensible buys? It's very simple. For example, am I feeling any rush to buy small caps right now? Okay. So when should I add small cap? When this equation starts making sense, right? For example, this right now, like in this, if I analyze last five years, one 91% right now, all I mathematically need to know is that hey, small cap funds on an average give, let's say, 22% run up C.A.G.R. Okay. Five years, total run up should have been let's say 115%. How much are we overvalued approximately 80%? Okay. Now once this is settled, okay, then I will buy bulk. Now, can I give you write it on a stamp paper and give you when this will happen? I don't know. Okay. Now and therefore it is said that patient investors make money, right? Because your decision to invest in small cap versus large cap now is going to define your returns over the next three years. If you make bad investment move right now, maybe in the short term, three months, four months, you might like know, trading give us as a few five months, but over a long term, two, three year basis, that's going to be challenging. Okay. I don't know. Like I mean, I cannot issue recommendations that you sell this, you buy this and all that stuff. I'm telling you like simple points, right, which you yourself can test out, right? I mean, it's not as if that I'm speaking like complicated stuff. Okay. That's the bottom line, right? Now, natural question comes this next. This is all about this one. It's a lot of good that you know, don't buy like small cap, buy large cap. But what's like that one thing that allows us to be patient because we need to think about it from that angle, no, because pomeo is a right. I mean, if small cap gives like 20% run up now, you'll feel the pomeo. Okay, I should go and invest. Okay. But what you should understand number one is that see when things move up, they move up, go down, move up, go down. That is up trending. Okay. Down trending, the outside trending, the outside trending, so the market can go up still even in a downtrend. Okay. So that's one that's knowledge gap, right? So which I hope I've been able to plug. Second key thing is that getting access to investment options is critical. Okay. If you know about the Bay real estate, if you know about India real estate, if you know about US stock investing, if you know about India stock investing, if you know about VTC Bitcoin, if you have access to, you know, 1015 asset classes that you can pick and choose from, each of them will be going through their own business cycles. Okay. So own business cycle, that means for example, Indian stock market might be in a down cycle here right now. US stocks might be in an up cycle here. So this is a buy market. This is probably a sell market. I'm not issuing recommendation. I'm just telling you, okay. They will also go through their cycle. They will also go through their cycle. Same about Bitcoin. Bitcoin might be somewhere here. So our job is to figure out the right cycle to invest in because here we have same access to information as large ticket investments. Okay. You might have heard that's your retail investors. They lose money because they try to compete with big guys. Okay. So do you know, you know, if Mr. Warren Buffett knows what's happening at Apple more than you and I. Yes. Because if he calls Tim Cook, Tim Cook will pick up his phone. But if Akshad calls a product manager at Apple, he will not even speak with me. Probably. Okay. So that's the difference. Access to information is different for Mr. Warren Buffett and me on Apple's top. But does Mr. Warren Buffett know that Fed chairman is going to cut rates tomorrow? No, because if Fed chairman is caught talking to Mr. Warren Buffett, both of them will go to jail for insider trading. Okay. We cannot do that. Okay. So point being that if you are making macro moves, trying to time the cycle. Okay. That's sensible for retail investors because both Mr. Warren Buffett and I have equal access to information. Okay. But when it comes to these micro things, right. Okay. Apple, you know, some media and all that stuff. So that is not something that, you know, anyone can stop per se. Okay. So yeah, so that's the bottom line. I hope that you got this. Okay. So there is no such thing as multi-bagger. Okay. Multi-bagger means that you buy a piti, piti, p stock, poly company. For example, Motira Lozwal is at 8 p. And if for some reason, it goes to 8 p. That's 10x in your money. Okay. At like same earning level and on top of that, if EPS also expands, then the company is going to do fabulously well and becomes a multi-bagger. So that is the story of a multi-bagger. No one can tell what a multi-bagger is. Okay. You just start experimenting with a range of stocks, but yes, there are certain features. For example, you should buy a small cap company if you are trying to figure out multi-baggers. You buy like monopolis, small cap monopolis. For example, dream folks is a small cap monopoli. PBR is a small cap monopoli. Okay. If that business itself grows, for example, if PBR starts an India version of Netflix or whatever, right? I mean, that's a business that no one saw. Okay. They started, they excelled all that stuff. Right. So these are potential monopolis. One could argue. No, I'm a wealth. It's a small cap, 10,000, 15,000 crore company. It can go to 100,000 crores. What will happen to your stock? It will go to next. Right. So that's the idea then. Right. So I hope that these points are now making sense. Okay. Please advise CMP of nifty, 50, nifty, 50 is a good asset to buy. It's fairly valued. That's what I would say. Okay. Is there a different logic based on your size of networks for limiting small or mid cap exposure? See, I don't consider small and mid cap. I just consider investment as investment. If I'm getting a great deal in Dubai, I'll buy it. If I'm getting a great deal in Goa, I'll buy it. If I'm getting a great deal on large cap, I'll buy it. If I'm getting a good deal on small cap, I'll buy it. By nature, I was slightly risked over the investor. Now, which I look very random to you. Right. You are risk averse. Right. So then who is like a pun trust. Right. So I am risk averse for me because I have built my own wealth. I was not 100 like generational wealth. So I'm a little bit more conservative. I meet a lot of my friends who have who are like multi-multi-millionaire on dad's money. They have entirely different risk appetite. Okay. Then me. Me. Me. Nature. Me. Right. So I mean, I cannot go against my nature. Okay. So that's another important aspect to understand. That principle loss is okay. Right. I mean, what's the thing in investing? Sometimes you can't change that. But the extent of risk that I take with my investments is not that high. Okay. So for example, even when I'm doing angel investing, I'll properly study the company, all that stuff. You can still lose it. Right. But I am despite like having a large portfolio, I still behave like our normal retail investor, who is risk averse. Okay. Because I have done jobs. I have worked like 16, 16, 17, 17 hours a day at like BCG Dalbo because it's not as if I was 100 year like, Mosaic or Overtime. So the point is that I know the pain of losing money. Right. So that has not left me right for some reason. Right. Which is good also. Right. So I hope that this point is clear. Right. And okay. Portfolio building we will pick next week. Right. So we'll do fundamental analysis. Portfolio building went to sell US stock investing. These are four or five classes left. Right. And I'll put it all together. Right. Just very quickly. Right. I'll just want to cover like the final points from this slide. Technical. Yes. Yes. So technical I'm already teaching you. So for example, two is to one trade. I'll teach MSID RSI. So it's a 770. You'll go. Right. So I will cover this. Right. Now see, basically like if you're judging the asset quality, if it is fundamentally good, I'll give you 18 point less next week. Right. If the company has no major red flags, for example, Tata Motors we discussed, the major red flag is that we don't know if it will be competitive in five years. Okay. No major overvaluation. For example, just say if you study CDSL camps, one could argue that it is overvalued. Right. Technical analysis makes sense. Technical analysis we learn. Sentiment analysis is very good. Okay. So for example, right now, gold is in very positive sentiment. Should you bulk by gold? No. Okay. What is in a bad sentiment right now? Indian stock market is in a bad sentiment. Okay. That, you know, are quick pilser at that Twitter period, they were say, we've been doing all that stuff. So which means what? That you should probably buy like Indian stock market, right? When people become bearish on US stocks, then we buy more of US stocks. Okay. So I hope that this point is clear to everyone. But yes, sentiment is not that you should buy like tax ineffective things. For example, bonds are generally tax ineffective most of the bonds. Okay. In India because bonds are taxed at slab dividends are taxed at slab. So that's structurally bad. So structurally bad products, we should always eliminate from our portfolio as much as possible. So yesterday we spoke about PF, EPS, NPS, all that stuff. I covered it in the morning also with that question itself. Right. So always fact check these things. Long term name, what is a good gain to make if your if your portfolio is growing at 13, 14% you're doing a good job. Okay. That's a good decent job. Right. Without you losing too much commission. If it is growing at 18, 19, 20% C.L. Gear, it's very good. So usually like my portfolio, I'm able to grow at around 20% right, which I'm very happy with. Just for example, mutual fund coming when I did. So this was at C.L. Gear of like 30, right, at few days back, over a few months back with the other, because the market itself fell by 15% right. Otherwise here it would have been higher. Right. How do I unlisted stocks? I'll write a note. Right. So you can use incorrect money. What I will do tomorrow is that I'll send you some homework to just view. There are four or five videos. Please watch that. Right. I'll share some class notes. These Excel spreadsheets, everything. Right. I'll share that. Third, I'll send you like a question, submission link. Okay. So whatever questions you have, you just send it to me. I'll, it's on slide. Okay. So whatever the up-booted questions are, I will either write a response to that or come like 15 minutes before and send it. So I will send all this on WhatsApp. Okay. So WhatsApp group that we have created. If you have not been added to that group, please get added. These were two very tiring days. So, you know, we'll just end the class here. Right. So, but hopefully you enjoyed. Right. You learn something new. That's the idea. Right. And yeah. And we'll meet next week. Please complete the homework. What I'm sending you. Okay. Okay. A take. Let me take some questions. Okay. What portfolio should be the, in what percent of it should be the index one? See, index funds comes under stock market investment. Okay. So for example, it's like saying that what percentage of my networks should be on land. Okay. It's not like that. What percentage of your networks should be in real estate? That's the right question to ask. So index is a type of a or like stock is a type of an app. So when it comes under stock markets. Okay. Now, for example, right now if you're just starting, okay. And if it is your step one, is tomorrow a great time to buy index. Yes. Okay. Why? Because the chances of you losing money on it is very less. Okay. Why? Because you're buying a price correction of 10, 11 percent, 12 percent. Right. Portfolio building. Yes. We will discuss. Right. Will you be sharing a link to purchase? NSES. I'll do that. Not a problem. Nipon ETFVs. Yes. Technicals. More on technical. I'll continue doing that. Right. So support resistance. Band theory. I'm going to get a call. India. Please don't ask me like individual stock. He has stock analyze. The whole stock analyze. I'm already teaching you how to do it. Right. So please do it yourself. Right. So I mean, that's the idea of the course. Otherwise, there are like so many stocks to analyze how many land. Right. So that's the idea. Any thoughts of investing in bonds? See, as a structured product, it doesn't make much sense to me anymore. Right. Or bond investing in India. Because as I said that because Indian government banned its own notes itself. So there is no like G6. S a query. Parchi. Any I in our depreciation in one year. Anyways, happen like 3, 4 percent. So it doesn't just doesn't add up like an taxation is high on bonds. Why would you pick it? Right. So, um, therefore, like, I mean, if if I were in a job, right, what I would primarily focus on is equity investing. Right. I'll put like major money for growth there. Equity investing plus BTC. Right. And by real estate at some point, which either helps me save my rent or which gives me an additional stable cash flow because stable cash flow causes funders on. Right. For example, the market is at a 30 percent discount and you have stable cash flow coming in. Then you get to buy the market also 30 percent discount. Right. So that's the idea of stable cash flow. Okay. Okay. You cannot estimate where FI am and you will flow. Okay. That's always up for a bit. Um, this I've sent. Okay. Will you do tax laws harvesting seed? Tax laws harvesting guy. It's a very simple concept. For example, let's say that this year, you booked a 10 lakh rupees of profit. Now, as per 12 and let's say this was long term. Okay. Now, I now how much tax do you need to pay roughly speaking? Like, I mean, not adjusting for anything. You will have to pay 1.25 lakhs. It's just 12.5 percent. Okay. On that 10 lakh. Now, let's say you don't want to pay this 1.25 lakhs. What can you do? So take a look at your portfolio tomorrow. Everything that is at a loss. Just sell it tomorrow. Okay. And then buy it after. So that way you have booked the losses. So that 1.25 lakh tax liability gets offset from everything at loss that you're selling. Okay. That's it. So have you saved it access? No. You have deferred taxes and tax deferment is a type of a tax saving only. Okay. So yeah, if Lexi Vexi kept many, Artha, Bikar, things, all that. So like, I mean, it's not going to get me done. See, the problem with Flexi cap and all that is that it's very difficult to exit. And on what basis will you exit? On what basis will you rotate capital on it? On what basis will you top up? So you have no control over your money. Now, it's great for people who have no understanding of finance or like, you know, economics or stock investing. But if you understand a little bit of capital rotation and all that, and you understand you can make very good money by rotating capital, etc. For buying things cheap, then Flexi cap does not make sense, right? From that angle. The recordings will be uploaded tomorrow. Please write to us. Anath will be added to you. You will be added. And also on your registered email ID, you would have received an invite to join. So please check your spam folder once. I have sold HDFC AMC earlier. Will you do tax loss harvesting? Yes, I'm already doing everything that I have on loss. I will sell it. So I am already selling it for the last one and a half months. How to read 200 days? This I will tell you. This is like one more technical concept that I'll cover 250, 100. Approx how many stocks at least 20 stocks should be there? You have to check your own. What about trailing, stop loss and all that. Just simple stop loss I have told because that's for investing. If you go to like trading, the goal of this course is not to make you trade us. Taking codec as an example, while there is no margin of safety, no, there is margin of safety because there has been a five year time correction. So you are buying a five year time correction that is your margin of safety. Your NNI community just check our website. I'm also lazy to post all this stuff. But otherwise I'll drop a note on like WhatsApp community. Since you guys are existing students, we'll offer some discount on an issue. His finance talk still undervalued depends on which type of finance talks it looks to me that they are. For this financial year, yes, you should book a loss right now for capital gains offsetting perspective. So that's tax loss harvesting. So do that and buy it again because you should not like exit something like codec, mind, and you know all that because they are at good value. So why I necessarily sell it. Best way to buy gold in India. See, buy 10 grams gold from reliable jewelers. That's what I would say. These new age companies, bourbon cash and prices go up are they good for long term investors or short term. What other option do you have? Like I mean in 20, 25, you have to bet on modern companies. So like I mean it sounds great that you will invest in like you know whatever maruti etc and stable businesses, but businesses themselves are becoming tech oriented. So they will burn a lot of money. So there is nothing wrong in that right. I mean every company is burning money now right. We sometimes get surprised by selecting stock with growth demand and price and time correction. Still why that stock doesn't work. See, like I mean honestly in the stock market, 90% of the things you would not know even I would not know. The idea is that whatever 10% we understand, we are able to execute in that sphere. So it's about understanding our game and playing it well. Right. So for example, travel to a bit knows that he's a very good defensive player. So I mean he's always he understands it. He can't take it. But I'm not. Right. So that's what we are also trying to do. Since gold isn't an ultimate is that you could step down and say, huh, you can do that. Right. Where is an ultimate exit investors point of view? Like you mentioned about capital rotation. That's a 50% amount is still invested. What do you mean by ultimate exit for investors point of view? I didn't get it. ETF and index fund index fund is for example, nifty 50s and index. Okay. If you buy it like a stock, it's exchange-rated fund. So you can buy it on kite by zero. But if you buy it in a mutual fund format, you can buy it on coin by zero. That right. So index is nifty 50, but you can buy it easier in a stock format or a fund or a mutual fund format. No major difference between that. NBC which provides loan on securities, right. You can see any loan business is doing well. It's just that don't buy it at very crazy valuation. In current scenario, do a step up SIP. Right. Farma is good. I mean, I commented on it in the morning time. Right. That it's complicated for me to understand. I'll not comment too much. Right. But generally it is considered to be good. I am rather betting on healthcare, insurance stocks. Right. Will you show us your portfolio from a regulation perspective? I can't. I'm happy to show you like my US portfolio, not an issue. India portfolio, I have made a public video. So I cannot like enough, for example, on my course, I can't reveal my portfolio because then it becomes and I have taken money and showed you my portfolio, which I can't do. Okay. But my portfolio, for example, if you just search, access, reverse the portfolio after 15% market correction, I have revealed parts of my portfolio and you can see my entire profit and loss and all that. When you search as buying land, do you also say, is it buying flattened? Goa. Yes. Right. So I mean, I feel that Goa is a good market. South Goa. Right. Not not. Goa. I've never purchased anything in North Goa. South Goa market is already going up. Right. It's a very good market. Right. And that's what I leave at its a conversation for another day. Okay. Momentum, momentum, something other in the last one and a half years, jitta, the momentum, and the best of all got lost. Right. So there's no point. Okay. So what is the difference between this? I've already explained how to pick real estate. I'll try right which asset class did you start with? I started with mutual funds. Right. Like almost all of you. Right. So that's where you started. Which asset class should beginners focus on index investing. Right. So in where beginners should start with index investing, then go to large cap, then go to mid and small caps, then learn swing trading, rotate capital, etc. HFN I'm not taking money as of now. Right. My crown was already closed a few months back. Right. So when I open it up again, I'll definitely inform you guys. Yes. Yes. In. Okay. So yearly rent is 3.5 cents. I'll buy apartment in city where I work for self-occupation. See, I mean, it's it's a I don't want to give like a quick answer. There are a lot of new ones. I make a lot of real estate oriented videos. Please watch it. You will get more knowledge around it. minimum amount of investment. I've first time invested in foreign country. Okay. It depends on the foreign country. For example, if you're buying something in Bangkok, you can buy our decent apartment at one crore. If you buy it in Dubai, minimum ticket size would be at least two crores. How many hours per week should be study stocks? It's not a number of hours. It's basically like, you know, how, yeah, it's not about number of hours. Okay. So like, we basically have to like, the quality is more important. The quality of content that you need, etc. But if you're doing like, maybe two, three hours a week, that's more than enough, I would say. How much EHGR is good from a defensive investing? I think anytime you're growing your portfolio, I'm more than 12, 13%, 14%, it's you're doing a good job. Okay. How do we know that we reached? We don't know. Like, so something which is in a bubble can remain in bubble for a very long period of time. Therefore, regular profit booking is critical. Right. So taking some money of the table when we are at an all time high, etc. is critical. If it goes even higher, then you take more money. If it goes even higher and makes you very uncomfortable, then you sell. Do you suggest buying land like residential plots? Yes. Yeah. How long or short time is a factor? Do you rotate? If you're just buying, you rotate. Right. You buy a support cell resistance. Okay. How many stocks at least 20 oil and gas? No. Right. Generally no. It's bad. Okay. So it's very capital intensive. Right. Okay. Yeah. Good. Prith. Shikha. Conjun. Yeah. Hi, I've got busy first of all. And the second thing for tax law harvesting, I have some talks that are like 14, 15, percent down like Irman, PBR, Dreamhooks, Indie, O issue. So if I sell them, right, on 27th March is the last financial year, last largest. So according to should I buy again or should I have sit with the gas? No, no, you buy again. Not a problem. Like these are good. Well, we are sitting. There is investment thesis. No. So that I'm investment thesis does not change you keep on holding it. Okay. And secondly, I have started, right. I've started like two years back. So my ticket size is not that that I can buy real estate. Yes. So what minimum you suggest that this should be the portfolio site then go for that because land I get like 56, she's like this is nothing. I live in the right. I live wrong. Number one, don't buy in early. Okay. So that's point one. Right. So look at some other place. Right. So otherwise, like, I mean, if you say that he I live in Singapore, I want to buy like a apartment, then you know, it costs a million dollar to buy a apartment. So there's nothing in that range. So that's the issue with cities, right. I would encourage you to learn like a little bit more about like Dubai and Goa. These are very good real estate markets. Because Goa is infrastructureally sound, right. I mean, the pressure on infrastructure is not that high and eventually like a lot of homeowners will buy here and people are moving more towards retirement lifestyle right with time because of the excessive pressure and the corporate life. So everyone would want to live in a creative environment when they're older, right. For example, half of the people that live in my society now are from Delhi. So like, we have fed up of pollution or whatever, right. So own in a place where infrastructure is sound and in India, there are very few such cities. I know only about Goa. So I can just comment on that rest. There might be many. So you have to investigate like these areas. So yeah, you want to buy it in a city. Like, and if you're considering, you know what boss I like like city life, that is much better. Dubai also minimum ticket should be one minute. Right. So now my portfolio is so much easier. So what should be? Buy later. So I mean, there's no rush. Right. So I mean, there's no race going on you buy later. Not an issue. And honestly, like you can buy it at like maybe 1.51.6 also. For example, one bedroom studio you will get. For example, there is an area called Dubai Silicon Wases. Right. So it's provides like value housing. So you can consider that. Right. So that area is decent. Right. For to buy at a decent ticket size. So that's what I want. And what range you suggest to enter goa like land. Land. Land. Don't buy like buy like ready property. If you, especially if you're an outsider and if you're not going to live in goa for the next 10, 20 years. Right. So you buy like a ready property. And that's cool. It's a not an issue. So buy anything in a society of flat or a villa, whatever you can get. It's fine. It's not like hyper over place. Right. I mean, as long as you're buying like good properties. Right. Okay. Thank you. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Uh, shikha. Concentrate. How do you separate stocks where you are doing a swing trade versus you might be wanting to hold it for 510 as in a real long term portfolio? There's more such thing as real long term. Right. So you just do whatever like the charts are telling you to do. So you just study a stock. If you have too much holding of it, for example, you buy nifty 50 because it is at an investible range. If it hits the resistance point, then you are not comfortable then you sell some. Right. So that's what I would say. Okay. Our next is fundamentally good shocks which do not form a part of the indices, but I have no volumes. How do you deal with them or you just leave them? I don't deal with them. Okay. So I have no interest in buying like a liquid things. Okay. So there's no way of anticipating that this stock may get greater volumes. No. There's no way. How can you say that? My last question is, uh, any screeners that you can share that we can use to filter down stocks for swing trades or old real long term? I'll tell you how to put screeners to buy like fundamentally good companies, right? But it's not an automated system. Stock miners cannot be automated. Right? At retail level, you have to just have a handful of like 50, 60 companies on your watch list and from that you keep on picking whenever price grows up, you keep on selling and that exercise does not require a crazy amount of time, right? Because I'm doing a lot of research for you guys. I like anyway, posting it on like WhatsApp groups and all that. So then, you know, your job is to just act on it right? I mean, by having conviction in your analysis. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So Akshad, I think in your back, we had started building a portfolio on our community, which is basically, uh, which was to contain about 50 or small cap stocks, which have a probability of becoming multi-baggers. And I think we could not take that conversation ahead. So any word on that or regulations don't allow it. Yeah. Already answered yourself. Okay. Sure. But then will you be able to help us give some tips on those because, uh, see, I mean, I can talk from an education point of view, but the moment I start telling people that you know what, this will make like this percent return or that percent return to start revealing my portfolio, all that. So like, I mean, the rules have been made very complicated now. Right? So even I don't know what is allowed. What is not allowed. It's just really complicated. Right? So that's what I can simply say. So even I'm not taking unnecessary chances. Right? Sure. Thanks. Paul, Akshad. Hi, Akshad. Good evening. My question is regarding the bond investing enough. Our channel earlier used to encourage us in terms of education point of view to search for the bonds in the golden pipe platform. Right? So, uh, that time also, the taxation was same as of today. Today also, the taxation is same. Nothing remains changed. And today, you have a viewpoint that don't invest. It means you are saying that we can't go for this bond investing. Uh, only investment is available is equity like that you are saying. So my question is that the taxation was same as of before or so same. Now, it's also same. That is a one question. Second question is that, uh, what in golden pipe platform I observed is that we can buy the bonds at discount. So, therefore, for example, if a bond is having a price value of one lakh, that bond I can get it in 90,000 also, 90,000 also. So, my, uh, what I'm getting the returns is much, not much very much, a little bit higher. So, comparatively, I'm getting a more interest rate than Ft. So, I can prefer a corporate bonds by learning as a seniority, secure bonds and all. And what is it? You want this? No, sir. I'm not discouraging bond investing. Someone asked me a question of, um, what do you call, um, hybrid funds, right? Which consists of equity plus bonds. Okay. So there I was saying that it's better to buy equity compared to bonds. If you want to buy bonds for cash flow, that's okay. There is no other option, right? Because many of us might not be able to afford real estate. And if you want regular cash flow, what is your option? Bonds, that's it. There is no other option and corporate bonds are very good. So, you buy corporate bonds, right? If you want cash flows because it solves your cash flow problem with certainty, right? So, you cannot compare it with the real estate, right? Because because the real estate will have the capital appreciation bond one. What problem is that real estate also have ticket size? So, for example, if you can't buy a real estate, if you don't have one credit crore to invest or 75 lakhs to invest, how like, then how do you buy real estate? So, then you have to go to the bond market for cash flow. I support cash flow. Okay, thank you. Got it. Okay, okay. Akshay, there we are. Yeah, hi, Akshay. So, should we use suggested of capital rotation, like if we're a nifty 50, channel is formed, we sell 50% of a nifty 50 stock, book some profit. And if it breaks out on higher side, yes. So, like, when what is, will be our executive strategy, if it breaks out on higher side? And break out. So, then a new channel is formed, right? So, for example, the support becomes like a new trade. You have already booked some profit. So, which means that you have additional 50 rupees to play around off of the units of capital to play around with in that channel. So, then you wait for a new support point to get formed. And then you take those trades. I see. Okay, one more thing I could not find out what's a link. I'll just drop us. Drop us a note. We'll figure it out. So, just try to us on our email ID. We'll add you to the group. Okay, it should be there. Right, I mean, from the email that you have purchased the course, the emails go out to that email ID. I see. I will check it out. Right. They're there in Koma. Hi, Akshay. So, I could not attend. I think you had one of your meetups in Bangalore for Bangalore real estate, but I could not attend that at that point. So, I wanted to understand about, since you previously talked about commercial real estate and commercial property, buying commercial properties that won't look good for buying commercial property. I have recently started thinking about commercial properties. And I don't know the process of how to go about it. I might have to look more about it. So, how do you suggest me to start that journey? Yeah, honestly, I don't know about commercial properties. I don't dabble into that. The reason is very simple. That commercial properties are rented to a business. And business people can create a lot of havoc in countries where the laws are weak. Right? For example, if someone's livelihood is dependent, let's say that you buy a show and you give it to like, and you give it on rent to like, let's say a jewellery store. Now that person's livelihood is dependent on that shop. And if he decides not to vacate your shop, you'll go to the court. The court will say that, you know what? You will get stuck. Because it's very difficult to kick a person out, right? A commercial shop compared to a residential real estate in India. Even residential real estate laws are very complicated. But the point is that at least a bjili card is okay, a few cards, all that. But the law is the problem. Right? And when it comes to like real estate tenancy, the tenancy laws in India are really weak. Okay? Both from a tenant side and from a landlord side. So therefore getting into commercial real estate is very complicated. In fact, the properties that are by in India, why do I do why am I buying like touristy properties? The reason is very simple. That Airbnb pay if someone comes and stays at my property for a month, maybe it's not as if they can become squatters there. Okay? So that's the issue, right? In areas like Dwarka, all that in Delhi, that is the precise problem that happens that many people just grab your house and refuse to vacate and it becomes a night marriage scenario, especially if you're busy, right? So that's the headache, right? So I mean, hoes up, but why you're into all that jig jig for like, you know, 3, 4% rental yield? That's my point. Okay. Thank you. All right. Yeah. I actually thank you so much. Actually, I have a doubt when you say time correction and consolidation, what's the difference? I mean, how do I differentiate that this is consolidation period and this is time correction? No, so that's one and the same thing. Basically, consolidation means a rectangular pattern has been formed. That is time correction only. And another thing is every time I see a downward trend, is that a price correction that's happening? Yes. Yeah. That's a price correction. Correct. Every day is a price correction. Okay, so that's a good time to buy. Yes. You have to check how much it has gone down from the recent top. Correct. I'm pretty new. I mean, pretty new. Absolutely new. So I'm like still working on it. So no problem. Thank you. No problem. Okay. Yeah. Arjun, yes. Arjun, Bharat. Yeah. Hi, Arjun. Hi. Yeah. Yeah. Hi, XS. I want to know what is that difference between which one is a good actually old pension or new pension scheme? I don't know. 10 new bonuses? Like, yes. So I'm not for me, NPS does not make much sense. I'm not studied it any longer. Right. So therefore, I don't have any comments on old versus new. Right. So for me, it's as slow growth instruments. I don't touch it. Right. So neither do I advocate people do it. Right. But the old one is good as for your pension. I don't know. Like, if something is bad, I'll not study it only. Right. I mean, whether what version of it is bad is like, you know, useless. For example, eating too much carbs is bad. So it's a nonsense. Divided like whether white rice is good or brown rice is good. Both are bad. I did little quantity. That's the idea. Right. So, yeah. Thank you. Thanks. Bharat. Yeah. I actually, the for your time and valuable insights from past two days, I think I really enjoyed journey so far. I have been investing since February 20, 24 to be precise. Computer, my equity exposure is about now around 10 lakhs now. And when the market was falling about the maximum of 15, 16 percent, given I was at the fall of 15 percent. But now as the market is recurring, now I'm at the fall of 8 percent. So my question is like, I have been fairly investing in individual stocks as well. My 15 percent of my portfolio is in ETFs currently. Okay. Yeah. Where I have picked up for not these private bank ETFs after seeing your videos on YouTube. And similar way, I see there is a correction in few of the farmer stocks where I am little lower exposed, I feel because NATCO format is not going to be enough. Going forward, should I invest in these individual stocks as such or just because the farm abuse and just keep adding when in the channel, see similar to private bank, private bank ETF. Something similar to that is a good strategy or because the inverse of like, for example, NATCO has fallen from 1200 to 800 now. Is it? Which is going to be? See, what I've, what I've realized after of what I've realized like, you know, looking at the last four or five years is that if you're picking individual stocks, then you need to be steadfast. Right? I mean, you need to have very clear understanding why you're picking that stock. Now, problem with farmer stocks is that it's very complicated industry to analyze and understand for an outsider. It's one of the most complex businesses to understand because it's very export dependent. It's very import dependent in the sense that you need access to certain type of chemicals to make like medicines. It's very regulatory oriented. So what I've understood is that for me, don't buy individual farmer stock. Right? So that's a simple point. I will rather buy it at an index level. Same with like something like genome editing in the US that genome editing is a very good industry to pick. But the problem is that individual stocks are so complicated to analyze that there is no point in picking individual stocks there and same as the issue with Indian farmer. Right? Because what happens is that for example, not go farmer fell because of a drug trial, right? And bunch of other different things that was going on the farm. Right? Now, we don't know how to process this news. But if for example, if let's say, hero motor car sales dip happens on its two wheeler, then you can still make sense of it. Okay. For example, it's a fine interest rates are high. Therefore, low pass people primarily buy on emi. So therefore, like, you know, it's an issue. But with time, like as interest it gets cut, it will recover. But there is no recovery path that we can see on like farmer and understand that news. That's the complexity of buying like farmer business. If you understand, it will buy it, right? But I am not personally buying which I would rather buy hospitals at rather buy like insurance companies because that business I understand more. On the contrary, there is a there are most of the Indian farmers selling this dollars. So the revenue what they get also is in US dollars. They are already we make some whatever the four, five percent leverage apart from the standard nifty growth message. That is one thing which I say is. If you want US denominated assets and buy US talks, why are you going by Indian farmer to invest in like US? Okay. So why buy something export dependent? Buy something which will benefit from consumption. Pick the simplest theme possible. For example, India is a consumption market. This story should be clear in our head. India most of the growth is generated because there are so many of Indians, right? Us who are consuming everyday stuff. Buy those type of companies more at discount at the reasonable level. That is sure short growth. Why take like complicated beds? Which I Indian farmer will sell to US farmer? I would have terminated RF. Right? So then we have screwed. So there are 100 different problems there. So it becomes very difficult to hold a stock because you will only make money. For example, if you ask me like thesis on let's say Arman financials. I can explain it to you. I mean it makes sense. I can I'm happy to hold it at 40 percent fall also. And small caps will go through that 40, 50 percent, 60 percent fall also. So that's the thing. So under consumption does income of a totally tata not just zero. Tata what does I'm not buying? I'm buying two alerts. India my consumption at two alerts. Right? So I'll buy that. I'll not buy four wheelers. Tata Motors. Okay. Thank you so much. All right. Kishore Sandra. Hey, actually, thanks for the session yesterday and today. I've been part of the YouTube community also the last six months. One of the challenges that I'm facing is like I follow your commentary. So you start with one second like direct banks was the focus that you moved on to financials. This AMC company and so on. So how do you pick a sector and kind of go down into it? So for example, if I and because I'm asking if this is a point of view that how much time should I look at to studying these sectors and then the specific companies or how do do it broadly? I mean now because there are a lot of companies to analyze right you see that okay. Arman financials have been chalbered with the new I go and look and see now. Yeah, chalbered. So how do you like zero down on which companies and sectors to analyze at that point? Yeah, it's my full time job. Right. So because I make like content. I run a hedge fund. I invest my own capital. If I my family will just hide into like investing. So I'm a full time investor. Right. So you don't need to be one right. I mean there is no point in you being one. You need to be a better consumer of data. Right. So for example, if you're watching a YouTube video of mine, if you're watching a YouTube video of someone else, if you're reading a news article, how you process that information is more important. For example, I'm statistician. Right. I mean, I will create that picture for you. Right. But you don't need to become a statistician to understand statistical data. You must understand how to read statistics. Right. So that is more important for you. So my process is pretty much useless. Right. I mean, unless you have like four or five hours a day, there is no point in you getting into and you're not trying to copy what I'm doing. So yeah. But basically how many are teaching you got it. So basically then my fallback plan is basically looking at broadly what sectors you're talking about. And then because you also suggest that you do your own research and all that. So I also try to look at financials from my end also try to see some annual reports and see what other information is there about the industry. Second question is the technicals that you taught today. So for example, I have some money tied in RSC. What I'm trying to do is try to try to use RSC using US and trying to like sell it out and invest through West Indian US stockets and not being into India right now. So do the technical analysis that you just taught today is that applicable to US markets also there is some nuance that I should take care of like looking at resistance and support and growth and so on. So how should I think from that perspective? It was right now I am at the verge of investing and I want to understand us. Slightly different in the sense that for example, US tech stocks are slightly more volatile. Right. So for example, Bitcoin is completely volatile. US tech is more is between like Indian is between nifty 50 and like you know Bitcoin you know. So for example, Amazon itself corrected by 36% in 2021 dip. Okay. That was not even a fall it was a dip. Okay. So it is slightly volatile. Basic principles remain the same but you just keep that in mind that okay. You know there is more volatility. So the up and down movement that curve will be bigger. Yeah. Okay. But the final question I know this is a stock market kind of course but what is the safe strategy to invest in Bitcoin? I think you have mentioned it in the past but sorry for the reputation. Yeah. Same stuff. Right. Pick a good entry point. Right now is a good entry point. Okay. Because we are getting into the mechanism. So I'm talking about the mechanism because in India it's not really easy and simple. Okay. All right. So see I mean I would say that by it in ETF format don't buy it in Bitcoin format unless you have a hardware wallet. So one is that you buy pure Bitcoin right. Go to Palika Vazar do it in PL2PR that's the only option. Second option is that you buy it when like in a coin DCX and all that don't do that. Okay. Because it attracts the highest accession. Third option is that you buy it through Wested a Bitcoin West or something. Okay. So because that will have lower taxation for you because it considered as an ETF it's not considered as Bitcoin. Invested. Invested. Yeah. All right. Thank you. All right. Yeah. Sandra. Thanks for all the sessions. So far, I'm sure. A very personal question but I think it might help many of us. Yeah. So I have two residential properties that are fulfilling around 2.5 years and they are just giving me pre expenses and pre-tax like 3.5% or so right now. So as a person who's an Indian tax resident and might continue to be here in the long term as well. Okay. Where do you own these properties? In Mumbai itself. Oh my god. Yeah. So would you advise like can it be a sensible thing for me to consider like investing in Dubai real estate and that might make sense for me considering I'm going to be a Indian resident. Yes. Because the even if you buy like average properties in Dubai, right? I mean at decent price right? I mean assuming that you're buying a good Dubai property, you will easily make 6% net yield. Okay. On that 6% you will pay 30% tax. So up to get the one third up and fake are there. So net yield that you're making is 4.4.5 in the terms. Add 3% 4% add on. So how much is the INR returned? So it's approximately 8% you're making correct? So you're making 8% after tax right even on the buy property. But in India you're getting like in Mumbai, you're getting paid in INR terms 3% on top of that you're paying one third as tax. So you're making net 2% so the difference is 8.5 minus 2. So does it make more sense if the goal is to own a property in a metro in Dubai? Yes. 100% yes. Is infrastructure better in Dubai? 100% yes. Are that 10 and see law safer in Dubai? Yes. Okay. For example, like I'm in the 10 and to my rented out to his check bounced. Okay. And in Dubai, if you're check bounced, it's a criminal offense. The first thing that happens is a travel ban. Okay. So yeah. So be very careful about all these things. If you're wishing to check to someone, have money in your account. It's not like India, he's a bounce over here. If you'll like you're putting in all that stuff. You can go to jail. You can not getting right. So it's it's very stringent laws. So yeah, I mean for me if I were to buy like honestly, I'm not a metro guy. I don't like metro cities. I don't know if it's a dumb nikaal jati or someone asked me to come to Bangalore Mumbai Delhi. So there's so far so so one is a fellow right. Dubai is like one city I like. Right. So I mean because it's fluid. It's easy to travel and all that right. It's needs. Okay. Right. But for me, like I mean, if I have to live in a metro, it would be like Dubai and all right. So it kind of makes sense. But even from an investing point of view, it makes sense now. And that's one important point guys. I mean, because many of you would get very excited to invest in Dubai. But please note that Dubai real estate market is at a peak. Okay. So it could go sideways or there can be correction because people buy Dubai property for trading. Yeah. So there is likely to be a correction. So let me issue that warning also. Okay. So you have to be very, very picky right now in terms of buying properties in the way. Right. So I'm actually the more about the property management expenses in Dubai because No, so see, I mean, if you're doing it on long term basis, then it doesn't matter. I mean, there's no property management expenses. Right. In terms of long term, you're just, for example, I have rented it on long term. Right. So I don't pick up any cost except for paying the Mac, the builder right now, early maintenance. Right. Rest of the maintenance is done by like my tenant only. So what if you're putting it up on Airbnb, then you have to do a revenue share. It's typically between like 15% to 20% they charge. But again, that is a structured system. So it's easy to find people to manage your properties. Right. Okay. Thank you. I think I've already asked. Thank you. Okay. Harsh. Yeah. Thank you so much for all the insights. I'm employed in Singapore and I shifted here only two and a half years back. So most of my portfolio be real estate, be it stock, season in India. And now it's it's I from the last two days, but I hear is that you know, should should we be building up a portfolio here in Singapore. So and how should like what are the asset classes should be in crypto should be like end hours kind of funds or still focus in the Indian market. See, if you're outside India, then you should have at least 56% exposure outside India. Right. I mean, if I lived in Singapore, right. So and if I get a chance to go back to Singapore, maybe I'll do it. I mean, I'm not think right. So I mean, I might set up a company in Singapore or Malaysia. I'm deciding right now like between one of these two places. I like Singapore, right. And my only complaint is the whether it's constantly humid. That's the only thing. That's a boring city. I know it's very small. Right. So that's my complaint. But Singapore is great. Right. If I were in Singapore, when capital gains from is zero, right. Which is brilliant. So I will do US talk investing. I will do dividend investing in Singapore. Right. For example, there are a lot of reads that you can buy in Singapore and reach is basically a transfer and see concept. Right. So in India, I will never buy reads. But if I were to buy reads in Singapore, I'll do it. Right. If I can't buy a house. Okay. And even like the real estate is very good in Singapore. Right. That's what my understanding is. Because if you think about it from a long term structure, 15, 20 year viewpoint, Singapore is making extremely hard for people to come in settlement Singapore. Right. I mean, the minimum ticket size as an HNI is like you need to have like 10 million dollars to even start thinking about shifting to Singapore. Right. So which is huge. Right. So it's going to be high quality economy. It's like Mauritius. Right. Mauritius is going to get like high quality tourism. So there will be like these hubs that will get formed in the world, right. Which attract like high quality people and the cost of real estate will go something like Monaco. Right. So it kind of makes sense to own property if you can. It's just super expensive and not to own anything. Very expensive. And also if you're not a PR, it's like it comes at a 25% higher stamp duty. But you can do reads investing. Right. That's what my understanding is. So I would definitely buy some reads and say about it. Even though you know, currently the Indian stock market is like at a point where you should be buying and building your positions there. No. So let me see nationalism. But right. Have an algorithm. If you just think as a logical person, you need to have emerging market exposure. Keep that in India. 20, 30%, 35%. And then you need to have emerged market or developed market exposure. Why? Because currency is strong. Right. There is stability in these emerged markets. And in case of a risk or volatility, money flows to these economies. Money flows to Dubai. Money flows to UAE. Sorry. Money flows to US. Money flows to Singapore. These are strong economies. Right. So having exposure and assets in these locations is very right. So that's what I would say. So job owner of the business percent is other exposure in Germany. Onaji, we are now 100% of the should I be cutting my exposure. And first I start building in the other places. It depends on how fast we are getting new money. Right. But let's say I mean project like 10 years ahead. Right. So for example, if after 10 years you have like a 30 70 split 70% outside India 30% India, that's cool. Okay. Within emerging economies also you should diversify diversify diversify diversify. That's what I've realized. Right. So for example, I'm learning more about Mexican stock market. And for me, that's emerging market play India's emerging market play. So I'll do a split between India and Mexico. So that kind of makes more sense to me. Right. Why unnecessarily take risk? No, what's the benefit? What's the upside? Right. Yeah. Thank you. But yeah, you're on snail. Yeah. Thank you. Upshed for your valuable insights and teaching throughout the course. I have two questions. Was what resources or habits do you suggest was being updated on market trend and making in form investment decision? Uninstalled Instagram. Right. So that's like the first thing. All really done. Right. So yeah, and use publicity. Great. Right. I mean, these two things work great. Yes. So other than that, it's not to see eyes. I mean, honestly, like you get a lot of meta information. Right. I mean, if you're using publicity or any like charge, GPT or whatever, right. I mean, you get they aggregate all the articles for you and give you like summary points. Then you learn how to read. Then you learn how to do research. So your job is to research things. Right. So yeah. So I mean, Google, public city, I think these are best. There is no one go to resource. Right. Cap money control, Palya, business, standard, Palya. That was an old way of learning. New way of learning is that learning like search engines and all that. I mean, that's where we are heading as a knowledge economy. And my second question is, it should be invested in Bitcoin through and some approach or by purchasing it at regular intervals. Okay. That's always a golden question. And so very hard for me to say, right. I mean, it really depends on what value are you getting things at? Right. If you're getting Bitcoin like 50%, 60% correction, then that's definitely a bulk by right now. It is a, you know, small bulk, right, not massive bulk. Right. For example, if you have to invest, that's a 10 units of money on Bitcoin. Right now, putting maybe like two is great. Right. Wait. Then see if consolidation is happening. Breakout is happening. Breakdown is happening. But Bitcoin moves really fast. So you need to keep tracking it. Right. And act quickly on it. Right. But have some Bitcoin exposure. Right. At least 5% of your portfolio should be Bitcoin. And what should we are failing up to? Right now, nothing. Let it get, let the asset class get mature. So right now, it's an aggregation stage. You don't book much profits on it. Nothing. Do nothing. Right. Unless it's completely like overvalued. Psychological levels. For example, 100,000 is a psychological level on Bitcoin. Right. It hit that and then it corrected, like 30, 35% so that was a psychological level approach. Sometimes there is extreme bullishness on Bitcoin. So then you sell it a little bit. But typically, you don't sell Bitcoin. Okay. Okay. Thank you so much. Thank you. Yeah. So Neil. Hi again. So, with the market recently, like doing a reverse and starting to I've been hearing a lot of my friends talk about, hey, it's an operator trap and you have to be very careful. We don't know what's going on because the world economy is still in a very like bearish phase. If India picks up like this, perhaps there is a play going on. So be very careful before deploying large capital. So I quite didn't understand this. How can operators play, like what is the whole thing about? Not very sure. See. Okay. So basically what happens is that what your friends are telling you is that a market is in a downturn. This is a dead cat bounce. A little bit jump has happened. And long-term it's bearish. So for example, if the channel in which we have drawn it keeps on going down, down, down, down, down, it's end of the market right in a way. So like now the thing is that whenever you're buying the market 15, 20% cheap in India, it's a little bit more than you know. Typically, unless there is a global crisis like 2008, 2020, all that stuff. So you always need to do your risk reward. That's more important, right? And just take two safer assets. For example, right now, am I buying any small caps? Should you buy large caps? Yes. Can large caps go down 10% from this? Yes. Then the market would have gone down 25% from top. So that's a bulk by zone. So you buy even more than, right? Will it securely go down over the next three years? No. Yes, that's very, very unlikely because that literally kills the SIP game in India, which is a booming game in India right now. Yes. That's how you need to think. Thank you. That's it. Yeah. Hi, Xit. Thanks for the session. Actually, we talked about budget finance. And we also said that we should not look at rise, but the price rise on English issue, P issues. And if you look at the P issue, even today, after such a high rise, it's still lower than the average one. So can I conclude that it means that there is some steam left still in budget finance? Okay. Good question. Right. So it is budget finance, right? Here's the P issue. Right. It's almost at sea. The baseline P 3536 is not as low P. Okay. For a company, which is at a size of 5.52 lakh crore. Now this P will be retained 35 P if the Bajaj finance keeps on growing at 20 30% CGR. The question is that will it grow at 20 30% CGR like at this baseline number, right? Because the base is too big. I don't know. So it's I don't have a clear answer. Yes. And all right. I mean, it's like in that confusion territory, always at the Navios, at the what will I do that if I'm if the stock price at an all-time I'll at least take off some profits, right? I'm not saying sell the entire Bajaj finance, but at least book like 20 25% profit. That gives you a hedge. For example, in case it falls, you can, the market is suffering like 30% US suffering 15. Okay. That's the joy of it. Yes. Thank you. We know the Fertuna. Yes. Okay. Thank you for the awesome sessions for the past two days. I have a tough question on building regular income, right? Yes. So you said real estate is a fantastic tool to build regular income, right? But then it comes with it today. A lot of hassle on finding the right client and then writing the rental agreements and this kind of stuff, right? So we have this kind of fractional real estate, which you know, the third party is doing this. Yes. So do you recommend this? In India, no. Why? Because they're crooks. Okay. So for example, in India, there's a lot of black money game. Okay. So for example, you'll buy fractional real estate from someone. Yoshi might have bought it at three gross. They will sell it to you at four gross. So they are already making their money there, right? So it's a problem and that is a structural problem in India's real estate market, the prevalence of black money. But if you're doing that, meaning Dubai, it's doable. So Dubai or like, you know, clear market, it's doable. Okay. I have another question also regarding this. I have built up now as you have invested in mutual funds. I also started investing in mutual funds initially. Now a lot of them are in regular plans. Now to convert them to direct plans, we need to redeem them and then convert. There's no other option. I think, right? I mean, as far as I know, there is no other option. You can put in an internal request with the AMC that if they can convert your direct to regular, I think that is also possible. I've never tried it because I've never bought like regular, like for such a long period of time. So I am not well versed with what the method right now is. But if you write to them, they will figure it out. I've persisted through banks. So always they will put in it. That's even worse because banks are not able to do it. Absolutely. Absolutely. So I want to immediately convert them to direct plans. Okay. I will try to the same CCC. Thank you. Okay. Alchana, yes. I want to know that how I came to know that the sector has changed before it happened. Whether it is auto-contour, or if it is going to finance or real estate, how I came to know. That which sector will be an opt-trend? Yeah. Which one will be an opt-trend? It's hard to pick. This is a guesswork. For example, because private sector banks or private sector banks has consolidated and it's fundamentally good, therefore the chances of an opt-trend is high. That's all you can say. Beyond that, there is no method or mathematics behind sector catching sector rotation. Is it no straight rule to the seasonal change of... Yeah. All that is yes. Okay. Don't believe in all that. Okay. Manth. Yeah. Hey, Akshad. Thank you for this great session so far. Just a couple of questions around Dubai thing. So one is, as you have been living in Dubai for a while now, so how much Dubai is far away from becoming a closed economy or a less accessible place like as compared to the Singapore out of now? Because there's a lot of discussion around Dubai being the next destination for job people, especially right. That is one. Second question would be, what are a couple of skills you think are really important if you're going from India to Dubai for a job considering in the next two to three years? So what are the upcoming skills in job market? Second, I don't know anything, right, because I don't do a job in Dubai, right. So I have no idea. Okay. So about second, first, I feel that Dubai will become like a mini-America. Okay. So they're exactly building Dubai like that in the sense that with harsher rules, okay. So it's like slightly more conservative, which is great, right, because that is a massive USB. They have figured out the system really well, right. System in the sense, for example, laws work. Okay. I feel safer talking to Dubai police compared to Indian police. Okay. So like, I say, like, and everyone like has great experiences like the way police and all that. Laws work. Okay. And there is people who are clean, people who want to follow rules they enjoy living in Dubai, right. That's not a problem for them. Right. Straight forward people. Right. So that kind of helps them. You don't create trouble for anyone. No one is going to create trouble for anyone. Right. So that is there. Right. So a lot of things are that right. So structurally they have made it secure, right. Aspirationally, Dubai has always competed with US, right. Or Western countries. They wanted to emulate some aspects of it. They have been able to attract a lot of like Europeans, Americans, all that stuff. Right. There are structural advantages to being in Dubai, for example, taxation and all that, right. So I mean, people are able to save a lot of wealth, so which is brilliant. Right. So fundamentally, it's very sound that way. Right. So and also like it is being built on the backs of immigrants, right. For example, the Amarati population is of UAs 10%, right. 90% are expats. 40% population of Dubai is Indians. Okay. So which is crazy. Right. So like to cut the long story short, right. I mean, someone was joking that Dubai is the best Indian city to live in. And I agree right from that angle. Right. So like, as long as you have all the rules, right. And not creating trouble for anyone. It's brilliant. Right. So I mean, I do see like long down potential in Dubai. It's a little bit hyped. Maybe now I don't know. But if you zoom out and see and try to ask that, okay, what three countries are there in the world where laws are functioning for good for normal people. UAE is right now one of those countries where laws function really well. Right. I mean, you'll not be scared to get out on the road at 2 a.m. Right. Name like three countries in the world where you can do that. Right. So, and that's the sign that economy is working for them. Okay. We're inside. Thank you. Harish. Yeah. I actually last year only I started investing money in stock market. So initially I started with mutual funds. So I allocated a financial some money in small cap and mid cap. I mean, I was not having good knowledge at that time. So, but I invested it now. I mean, now I'm getting it by minute and minute, minute, minute, minute. So now I'm in last in small cap and mid cap. So, around 15 to 20 percentage. So should I continue with them or should I exit from them? It doesn't matter. I mean, for example, whatever you have invested, you have invested it. It has no bearing on what is happening today. Okay. Important point to understand is that wherever you are putting new money, you do it sensibly now and forget about the past. Okay. So, take it as a learning. Everyone goes through a learning cycle. Don't make it an ego issue. It's not as if that you lost 15% from small cap. So you have to make it from small cap only. No, you invest wherever the opportunity is. Right. For example, if you see opportunities in private banks, invest in private banks. That's how it's it. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Giri Shah. Yes. Hey, hi, Akshath. I think you you mentioned this before, but let's say if to start investing in Bitcoin, what are the platforms like I'm an Indian resident. So what platform can I look at? Yeah. See, if you buy Bitcoin directly, right? So one is that there's an underground market to buy Bitcoin. For example, go to Palika, Vazar, pick your hardware wallet and you will be able to do PR to PR transaction and buy Bitcoin. That's one way of buying actual Bitcoin. Okay. Second way is that you go to coin DCX and buy Bitcoin from them. That's exchange method of buying Bitcoin. Now, Indian government keeps a track of it. Therefore, you have to pay crazy amount of taxes on it. So that's a problem. Third option is that you don't buy Bitcoin, but indirectly buy Bitcoin. For example, you buy Tom, vested Bitcoin, West. Okay. Now, you're getting exposure to Bitcoin, but that's not real Bitcoin. And that's also okay, right? Because there is no other option right now. Got it. And what does our taxation look like on let's say, vested Bitcoin? That is treated as a stock as far as I know. So it will be like US stock investing and not Bitcoin investing. Okay. Understood. Thanks. Right. Sheetal Ganshan. Yeah. Sheetal Ganshan. Yeah. The thing is that I'm very new to this. So I need to understand what's the impact of volumes when I see all the charts. So it's the actual impact of volume on stock price. And do we consider that thing in our entry and etc. I will talk about volume a little bit when I teach technical analysis volume does impact. But it's change in volume that is more useful for us as investors. For example, if sudden volume comes in a stock that indicates that that stock is getting bullish sentiment. Okay. Typically speaking. So you aggregate it. Right. I mean at that point in time, whenever you start seeing like higher volumes on that and then eventually it will rise. It's the utility of volume. It's not very complicated topic. I'll teach. Right. Okay. Okay. Thanks. One more question. Like I asked about the minimum investment like in foreign countries. So what I'm looking at for that like you have to make a I'm in your community as well. So you make one video regarding that minimum if we our initial investment is a little bit supposed to and like that it makes sense that we will run at least two like that. So that kind of figure on our own. For example, if your portfolio and index 10 lakhs, then you should at least have three lakhs outside. Right. So consider like if you're an Indian tax resident, everything is an Indian oriented and have 30% hedge to develop the markets. If you're an NRI, then have 30% hedge in India and rest in developed markets. That's how I would do. Right. So. Okay. Okay. Uh, concern. Yeah. I so you answered this Bitcoin West question. So can we assume that there is no way one through West. To just get the exposure to Bitcoins. We have to go to Bitcoin West and get exposure to other stocks who intern our holding Bitcoins now. Anyway. So pure Bitcoins. We just can't. If you buy it, it's really high tax oriented. No. So there is no point in doing it. Okay. Okay. Thanks. Okay. Thank you so much. It was a pleasure. Right. I'll see you next week. Amar O we should be able to buy tomorrow evening. I'll post like all the homework everything. Right. So please take like to it will it should take you maybe a couple of hours to go through all that. Right. So please do that before the class. Right. And next week we meet. I hope it's not very tiring. Right. And yeah. And thanks. Thanks for being like a part of this. Right. I really appreciate right. And yeah, enjoy your remaining Sunday. And we'll meet next week. Okay. Bye.