Transcript for: Live Session I - Why you need to invest money Part 2 -
Transcription Date: 2025-03-30 02:44:28.907538
==================================================

 Hi guys, Hi, I've got time. Yes, you're on time. Okay. Hey, I did the same question. Okay. So I think some completed question as now. Inflation in sector. Yeah, I think I'm at textbook. I think now right away. It's like it's you are not going to read it. So let's be practical. Okay. You guys are looking for making money in a shortcut manner. Now if I give you unnecessary homework, it will not be useful. You guys are full time work. I'm at home. Okay. So just watch the lectures one more time. Whenever you find time. At 2x speed, you will be able to absorb concepts. I'm giving relevant examples. Right. There is no point. I mean, just try to learn practically. You are old now. Right. And if you learn like school kids, like I'm writing on board, you are also taking notes. Yeah, don't know it. Okay. So like there's no point. Okay. So everything is practically taught. Right. And you will learn through examples. And mostly like I'll at the end of the course, I'll give you like a checklist. Okay. So I'll give you like maybe 20, 25 points, which are hard atting, which will help you make money. That's the idea of the course. The idea of the course is on more theory. There's so much theory floating around. Right. I mean, you will go mad. Right. I mean, studying all that theory. So that's not the idea that you understand. Okay, what is the meaning of inflation? Then I teach you the practically with our own it. So that's that's just listen to that. Okay. Okay. So, but you'll have to watch the video twice and be active on the wisdom, match community. So every day you are almost every day you will get a post from my side. Which will see you see things in action. For example, tomorrow if I write a post on bank ETF. And today like I mean, you understand that, okay, this is what the channel trading is. Now, then you will have the confidence that, okay, I have to buy it on support and sell it on resistance. If there is a channel breakdown, that also happens. So you'll not worry. So my job is to improve your psychology of investing. My job is not to teach you like, you know, macro economics. That is a course in itself. Wow. He's a professor. The world. Right. So my job is money making. Okay. So that's the point. Okay. So cool. So All right. So let's go back to the class. Right. And Okay. So I hope you got the point that you have to be smart. Right. In terms of investing. Right. And Let me. So we got the concept of what is asset class diversification. Right. And what you should not do in terms of asset class diversification. For example, there are some structurally bad asset, which do not solve any problems for you. For example, growth, any EPF, EPF liquidity, nothing. Volatility. Okay. Fine. But volatility, if you can go to something else, cash flow. No. For most of the things, EPF EPF is useless. Okay. It is sold on the name that you are, you have to pay no tax. Okay. But what's the point of no tax? Right. If you have to. It's like mutual fund agent coming to you and saying that, you know, you don't have to pay me any money for my consultation by you are taking money in the form of making me invest in Intrigue on whatever like regular direct regular plans and charging commissions from there. Right. Again, same BS happens and like, you know, Dubai real estate that okay, if I'm Make helping you buy a Dubai real estate like agent will come to you. They'll say that you know what I'll not charge like any commission from you. If you buy it through me. So you're not going to charge like any commission from me. No, you are of course going to make some commission. So please understand whom you're eventually paying. Right. So that's a simple point. Okay. So there are like, yeah, that's that's all I can say. Okay. So same is the case at NPS NPA whatever like you know NPS PPS PF PF all that stuff. It's self no purpose according to me. Rest is your call. This is not a push that you do whatever I'm asking you to do. But at least plot this. Okay. Now to us as investors, right. What is the meaning of portfolio creation? Right portfolio creation means that hey our net worth is let's say 15 likes. Okay. Now we need to have like a portfolio which serves which has a green check on almost everything. For example, our portfolio should grow also we should have some growth asset. We should have some cash flow asset. We should have some asset which can protect our wealth. We should have some assets where we don't see volatility. Right. We should have liquidity in our portfolio. So aggregate. You have to guess yes. Right. There's for example cryptos right it's a high growth asset. So it should not be that you're only investing like high growth asset because if the market goes sideways or the market corrects then you will see like 30 40% bleeding on your portfolio. So even that is important. Natural question comes up. How are you investing your money? Right. See we'll have a separate discussion on that. But if I have to tell you very quickly, right that see my So I do a combination of hard and soft assets, right or harder and softer assets. Right. So I have a lot of real estate. Right. Almost 30 30 40% of my portfolio is not real estate right now. Okay. So stocks I'm buying on opportunities. That's it. Okay. So unless I get to buy cheap. I do not I'm not doing SIP on stocks at all. Okay. Why because there has been a lot of volatility in the stock markets. Right. Now can I explain it to you. Yes. So even if you look at the US market right now. Okay. So for example, let's look at. Right. Right. So you can go to like Nasdaq. So it's called QQQ. Yeah. So for example, here you will see. QQQ right. So this is 2022 right and what you would notice is that Nasdaq itself fell by 36% 37% if you look at trillion dollar companies right. So Amazon for example that in that same phase it fell by 52% right. So what is it that I'm hinting at right there are here. We live in a market or we live in a world. If you are just being very honest with ourselves. We live in a market. We live in a world where trillion dollar companies can lose their market cap by a trillion dollars. Okay. For example, Apple losing 30% Apple is a four trillion dollar company. If it correct spread 25% it has lost one trillion dollars in market cap. Which is crazy. What does that indicate that indicates this central point which is the next key takeaway that stock market is this. This is called as volatility. Okay. Undist doing two things one is that getting my having money to buy here by things here or buying here you cannot perfectly time the bottom but buying it in the lower half is critical. Okay. Also selling it in the top half is critical. If you're not doing this you will not make money. I'm at a liquor. Right. I mean now I'm like 100% confident of this strategy. It will not work out. You don't have to do like you know, you're just tracking the market. That's not the point. But the point is that having sense having confidence to buy when things are low is critical now right on the stock markets. Now for example, right again coming back to that nifty. So for example, this right this is a technical pattern right if you look at it from any aspect for example if you consider the growth rate right and what's the point of the stock market. So for example, if you go 20 20 right and you look at the levels now so in the last five and a half years. Nifty bank has grown by 42% right so in five years. What does this indicate that if you take like even simple averages. It's an 8% CGR. Correct. What we are saying is that you know what and if you look at nifty right so nifty used to be 12,500 if you do the same analysis for nifty. Nifty used to be 12,500 right now it is at 22,000 so 10 divided by 12 so that is 5% was almost 78 80 90% right which is a CGR of how much 17 18% so we are saying that you know what nifty 50 is growing at a CGR of 16 17% in the last five years. But private banks are growing at a CGR of 8% now what does logic tells you. Two things are not even either nifty 50 is going to correct or private banks are going to rise more. Do you need to be a PhD to understand all this basic point. But where will you miss the bus you'll miss the bus if you're not patient. Now how are you not patient. For example, guess since when I've been buying HDFC bank right for the last two to two and a half years has it given a massive breakout. Is that the only stock in my portfolio absolutely not but did I buy undervalued then yes is it still undervalued yes will it grow. I don't know like but on a five year 10 year basis these things. Well average out right for example if you would have purchased gold between 2009 to 2015 2016 maybe like 2018 2019 gold was growing at a 3% 4% CGR. But if you bought gold after 2020 it grew at a CGR of 20% right so the point I'm trying to tell you is that years of under performance get compensated over the next on a certain time frame and if you have like that such a big window 10 years 15 years. What is your job your job is twofold by good quality asset. What is the meaning of good quality asset something which grows faster than the GDP for example private banks in India will grow faster than the GDP why because our GDP comprises of what manufacturing we suck at manufacturing so that's a lag on right. Banks are highest level crooks they will anyways charge you the highest ever money right so it's good to be an investor in HDFC bank rather than being a customer of HDFC bank. So that's how I'll put it okay. No, I won't go to the Catholic right so they screw you on every single thing right so like both British are not together so the point is I'm an investor right in that right so and you spread your risk right that's the bottom line. Okay so that's the simple idea of investing similarly if you find good deals in between if you find good deals in real estate if you find good deals in tax optimization so that's a game that I play now right so tax optimization hedging. So for example in my and you look for arbitrages that's the idea okay. For example right through my hedge fund we recently like I'm in around like 12 months back we bought like a roughly 12 month back we started looking at a deal in Bangkok okay so you bought like half a building in Bangkok I'll say that okay have you gone mad why you mind like half a building arbitrage and it's a cultural arbitrage so it's a very interesting conversation so basically like I'm in Bangkok cotton Thailand. Thai people do not buy second hand homes why because they are scared of ghosts and they feel that you know someone has died in the house and if you live in it then that ghost is going to enter your body or whatever right so Thai people do not buy that okay so like second hand homes with thin yeah okay so that's a problem right that's a cultural arbitrage do Indians give a crap about that no Indians want to buy bigger homes okay so almost like 40 45% of bias or like new bias are Indians no that's data for the way. In Bangkok it's around 25% bias are Indians and one primary feature of Indians buying real estate in Bangkok is that they buy bigger homes so as Indians we love bigger homes okay because we need like close kitchen and all that. Now that's an arbitrage and any old property that you buy in Bangkok you're going to get it cheap so basically like now if you're buying one single apartment you can not renovate the building okay but if you're buying half a building then you can renovate and it pretty much becomes new so you're buying cheap selling and. So you're buying the existing PSF and you make arbitrage right so there's a very specific method of doing it right so I hope I was able to explain you the point that investing is about. Exploring opportunities it's not about like you know sort of J.R. you know IDFC you know what's the name innocent bank fill so we'll buy it unnecessarily is the asset quality good if that is not there then you don't touch it okay but in real estate all that stuff the asset quality is good so what I'm trying to tell you through this chart the Excel spreadsheet that I just told you. Right that discussed with you here for example this private bank index here what is the meaning of index index is collection of private banks it includes like protect bank HDFC bank ICICF bank access bank now see was I mean innocent bank might be a bad private bank we cannot comment on the asset quality but when it comes to private bank ETF or private bank index is the asset quality bad of private banks. It can have temporary issues very similar to saying NASDAQ as an asset quality wise it is bad no it is not right it's tech index tech is going to add value over time it might happen that over the next month it might correct by like I don't know 15% because volatility is high but it's not as if that the value of it you know will not come back up okay because what ends up happening is that if you buy bad quality assets what is an example of a bad quality asset. Stock market let's go. In this and I don't know whether the asset quality is good or bad yes bank I don't know if it is good or bad. Gen Sol engineering a lot of talk is happening on Gen Sol engineering that the founder came on the new channel he said I'm not going to sell stocks next day you know floods the stock market by selling his own equity. So we don't know right I mean we don't know 80 90% of the internal workings of a company so we need to appreciate that and acknowledge that but when it comes to certain things for example well protected land in Bangalore is it a good asset or a bad asset. My voice is good guys everyone is able to hear me so it's a good quality asset it might happen that temporarily maybe like next year or the market has stagnated homes are not selling in Bangalore so maybe you will not be able to liquidate it but maybe in the next month it's not going to be a good quality asset. So we can't wait for it to be updated but maybe in five six years when the cycle improves you will be able to liquidate it at very high prices. So understanding this basic of asset quality is very important and whenever you get good quality assets at somewhat reasonable price you buy and you said tight that is what investing has become right it is not a sipping I can like and I probably like you know few years time people will write a book on this topic why a sipping will not work. So we assume that stock market will forever go up but what if there is there are structural issues with the stock market then and if you're not studying it you're just like a blind person just unnecessarily throwing money after money it's not going to help you out right so yeah so that's a bottom line right. So yeah that's that's what I would say in terms of this right for example private bank ETF is not a bad quality asset collection of top private banks in India. This is trading at roughly 15 16% discount right now can it happen that for example it falls by another 5 10% it falls still here yes of course this is a support right you buy more right that is called as position building so how to build position this I also I will teach you with time but for the time being just understand that it is already trading at a very good support level right and it's not a bad quality asset so you are definitely not overpaying and add the same time this is a good quality asset. So this is a net addition asset on your portfolio when will it come up what the market view will be like in like you know six months from I don't know about all this these are all speculations okay the only thing even the top investors can do check the asset quality is it good band the very clear answer check whether or not it is somewhat under value these are the two questions that we explore as an investor I hope this point is here okay now coming to the core topics right so all right. So I hope this point is clear what is asset class and diversification right goals of different asset classes I hope everyone understood you understood that what are structurally bad asset classes to invest in according to me PF EPS PPS are structurally bad asset classes Indian FDs are typically bad asset classes if you have an option of investing in FDs in developed countries it kind of makes more sense because these are more they protect your way. So for example I gave you the example of UAE FDs right why it protects us I showed you the math also what is a bad investment product where you're paying very high commission for example many of you have the habit of using PMS is if the PMS if the nifty generating 12.5% and if your PMS is consistently generating 2223% then it kind of makes sense to pay 2% AUM okay it's not 2% from profits are they are charging they are charging 2% AUM which is good. It's crazy okay it's like you're making 12 and because you're paying 2% your net profit falls to 10 right so that's how it's like just crazy okay so be very clear about all these things okay next point. Now this is where we start like some macro concepts and the most important concept that I would like to teach is the concept of liquidity okay now don't get bogged down with the fancy words that I'm using because bankers typically use this I cannot change it but liquidity simply means more money flow in the economy for example imagine this to be India if more money is flowing for example let's say that this is 2024 and the total money flowing in the Indian economy is 5 trillion dollars okay and buy it 2025 if the total money flowing in India becomes 10 trillion dollars what is the number one thing that will happen or what is the number one change which will happen it will lead to something called as asset price appreciation apa okay now what is the meaning of asset price appreciation for example if we suddenly increase the total flow of money into the economy rich people will get access to it okay so for it and how do it everything will go up yes but not everything will go up equally okay so that is where the understanding of economics comes into the equation okay so usual way right the way this happens as that for example and let me draw this for you so the way money is released or as or liquidity is increased into the economy is very simple right so RBI is there and you have commercial banks like commercial banks like access bank all that stuff right you have government okay and you have customers now the government will tell RBI that boss we are facing a 2020 cow COVID like crisis all the factories are shut economy is not moving okay so RBI will say that okay let's do something called as quantitative easter now quantitative easing means that we will increase the liquidity in the system so instead of having five trillion dollars in the economy we will put like 10 trillion dollars and add five trillion dollars into the mix okay so what will happen here five trillion dollars are sent to these commercial banks and what will they do they will loan at what rate close to 0% right in the US okay so for example in 2020 right and this you can check by certain for something called as interest rates okay so interest rate means the borrowing rate okay so for example if you simply go interest rates in the US your vice yeah so you check right what you will see is this so here here you will see 20 20 interested fell to 0.25% okay now what is the meaning of 0.25 and what is the difference between 2.5 at 0.25 what happens versus 2.5 okay so if I have to become let's say next Adhani what do I need I need loans okay I don't need a business I don't need anything I just need banks to lend me like an order five trillion dollars okay banks can lend me five trillion dollars I can buy as it I can buy ports I can buy a lot of things and call it my yeah so that therefore there's excessive ob nobbing between like politicians and borrowers okay Anil Ammani for example relatively drove the lines calm to the ground right so he lost multiple billion dollars of wealth he's again a billionaire why because he was able to get more loans okay okay so same story played out in 2020 that who borrowed crazy amount of money in 2020 tech companies why did they borrow Amazon Apple Meta every one borrowed crazy amount of money okay for example you can get an understanding again whatever I'm telling you just fact check okay so for example go here go to publicity right just simply ask publicity how much money did Amazon borrow in 2021 when 2020 2021 enter yeah and it will tell you the answer okay so it's very simple okay okay so here is like the total amount of debt so they borrowed six borrowed approximately 10 billion dollar through its board offerings or board and I did not take any new debt as it was using a system so 2020 with the borrowed 10 billion dollars okay which is a lot of money right so substantial amount of money similarly if you run the analysis you will see that a lot of money was borrowed by rich billionaires reliance borrowed a lot of money Adani's borrowed a lot of money etc etc okay so to cut the long story short what was happening these companies were borrowing crazy amount of money why were they borrowing crazy amount of money because they were getting loans cheap at 0.25 if the situation was 2.5 you still have to pay a lot of money and I see guys I'm just using it as a baseline rate the borrowing rate for a company will be different right this is the base rate okay but whenever the base rate falls it means generally the interest rates also are following falling okay okay now you say that okay I could not borrow so should you have borrowed in 2020 yes even your home loan rates would have been really low in 2020 2021 the next time the interest rates go go low should you borrow yes borrowing generally is not a bad idea but borrowing in a high interest rate environment is a bad idea now comes the next corrupt a bit okay I'll expose like all the corruption that okay see in India we don't have the concept of fixed rate loans for people like us and what do I mean for example if you go and check this right you will see that it's 4.5 right now right and one day I mean and now Fed has started to cut the interest rate and it will settle like somewhere here because this was it 2019 rate now if you are getting loan rates rates here so right now home rates in India would be somewhere around 8.5% okay but if the base rate falls from 4.5 to 2.5 this home loan rate will be around like 7% 6.5% now if you are getting home loan rates at 6.5% should you borrow and buy real estate in India the answer is yes okay but what's the problem the problem is that in India we don't have fixed loan rates okay I'll say not as I was told to you see it automatically read just after two three years whatever that thing is and more over this fixed there is a cap or there is a like a what do you call margin that the bank already adds to the variable okay for example they'll say that she was if you're taking like a loan from HDFC you can take a variable home rate rate at like whatever likes it but if you want to fixed you have to pay half a percent more that's what is it okay so why is that because banks are crooks I keep on saying best investments right so you buy banks have never customized screw them right so that's a simple point right so I'm a bit cool to go back to the bank policy right don't go so on that right so they are June all are going to have for it so there is like crazy right so I mean there is nothing that you can do okay on that that is what the situation is okay now how to deal with that problem how I am dealing with that problem I'll probably if we have find more time I'll try to explain that right however what is my strategy of taking more debt but what I'm trying to tell you is that see if you want to borrow like new money wait for interest rates to come down okay right now someone asked me a question should I repay my home loan yes okay because we are still in a high interest rate environment so if you can repay your loans it's good thing okay some people say that you know what my interest my home loan interest rate is 9 but I can make 10% from stock market should I do that pay loans first India is a high cost of borrowing country okay so always pay our home home loans and all those loans keep as less debt as possible in a high interest rate environment because debt is a fixed outflow you don't know what your financial situation might be a job then what right so I'm a falthulia required and you have put that money in stock market stock market also down debt also there on your head so don't play don't take risks that you can't digest okay that's an important bit okay but I hope like you know this first point so just quickly wrapping up the loop let's see what happens is that the government will say that 20 20 type situation right we want to throw more money into the economy how can we do it so RBI what it will do is that RBI will in a way print from 5 trillion dollar it will increase the money flow into the economy to 10 trillion dollars five additional trillion dollar came into the market who will take it companies will take it what will they do with it they will build more companies higher more people why will they do it because they are getting cheap loans now if they are getting cheap loans getting to acquire more people they think a lot when offering a right so that also happens because eventually over time using this money they can grow their business so even when Amazon a dhani type of companies might have a lot of cash reserve but if they are getting debt for cheap they will take debt for cheap and that increases the money flow that hits our GDP that hits everything so this is called as increasing liquidity okay now how does this reflect into the stock market now that's a very interesting conversation and it's killing me I can't take a look you'll find something very interesting right that for example this was 2020 this was 2020 2019 right market was at 12,200 then it fell to 8,000 so there was 40% correction 40, 45% correction then nothing happened right now in 2020 was a bad year right that was COVID first fake 2021 is when India got it with the second wave of COVID which was the most severe wave for India when in 2021 but the market went up to like cut its previous high also it's not as if that it was a very rosier atmosphere or like you know something great was happening in the economy and it kept on going up up and up right in fact 2022 was a slight correction here and it went here but if you at least COVID the impact was till 2022 okay we can say between 2020 and 2022 so if you check the levels from 12,000 we went to 18 and a half thousand right and what happened in between COVID that entire India stopped moving labor migrated from Delhi Mumbai all that to their hometowns they stopped working hardly any construction was coming up no real estate activity factories had shut down automobiles sales stopped people were sitting at home right you know consuming like Netflix or whatever but Indian market went from 12 and a half thousand to 18 and a half which is a 50% rise right so then natural question comes why did that happen the short answer in economics terms is liquidity okay and this is a very interesting statement right so I'll just make you read the statement first right so the statement is liquidity creates fundamentals fundamentals don't create liquidity people who wait too long lose money okay so now what is the meaning of that right it's called Bhethi Yunga Mehaandona right so that's like Hindi kahavat right so it simply means that see if there is more fish in the sea and if you are an amateur fisherman you will still catch a lot of fish okay but if there's no fish in the sea even if you are the most seasoned fishermen you will not catch anything okay that's a simple thing so for you to make returns from the stock market liquidity in the stock market needs to be high okay you can pick possibly the best stock out there best fundamentals best everything best this and that but if the liquidity is withdrawn from the market right for some reason then all our portfolio get will get shrunk by 50% okay but if liquidity is injected into the stock market which is called as quantitative easing right then all the stocks will go up or almost 95% of the stocks will go up to the over valuation go okay every one with me so far yeah so these are all very complicated topics to explain but I'm trying to explain it in very simple language okay now we can see this from this chart also for example if we check this and if you look at the total money printing that has happened from 2008 right so this so in 2008 total liquidity in the world right or in major economies was $4 trillion okay which is equal to the market gap of Apple now okay so $4 trillion cash pass right this was a total money that central banks had okay now by 2022 this was around $27 trillion so when net addition of 23 trillion dollars was added okay now the important question to ask is not whether stock market will go up real estate will go up this will go up that will go up at the point is that this increase in liquidity by 23 trillion dollars across the world what impact it had in the stock market so it had a very positive impact because if you study 2008 look at the nifty levels it was like maybe 4 5,000 something like this now it has gone 4x5x why because the liquidity went 4x5x so this is one and second and more important question is that see in we are sitting in 2025 now let's assume that the total outstanding balance here is like whatever like 30 trillion dollars where will VB in 2035 because if this goes from 30 trillion dollars to 60 trillion dollars R money will double but will it go from 30 trillion dollars to 15 trillion dollars and that's the question of the future okay so this is the important point that you need to understand you don't even need to look at a balance sheet you can make all your money from index investing if you understand this point okay so let me explain this and give you a little bit more clarity on this topic see okay so everyone understood what is the meaning of liquidity liquidity means the total money flowing in the economy okay this is called as quantitative easing if you are increasing liquidity in the world if you increase liquidity in the world it impacts asset classes it impacts everything right from real estate to stocks to bonds it impacts everything okay now in a world where quantitative easing is happening at a faster rate if the rate of money branding is going up growth assets will go up dramatically okay this is first part yeah now quantitative tightening is opposite now it means that hey in 2025 4 trillion dollars were flowing right in 2025 by 2026 only 3 trillion dollars will flow through the economy now if such a situation happens this situation what do you think will happen to stock market and everything it will collapse okay and this never happens okay that's the beauty of it that at least in India and the US what actually happens it's the rate of money printing comes now okay so what typically happens is that your balance sheet will keep on going up right one quantitative easing is permanent okay but the rate at which that happens that slows down for example right between 2020 and 2024 the rate of money branding was 18% in the US okay now from 2025 to 2030 if we call it quantitative tightening the rate of money branding I don't know will be like 10% okay everyone get it get this the doomsday will be that hey instead of a five trillion dollar of balance sheet we are at $4 trillion that will lead to asset price depreciation okay now everyone understood two three basic concepts that number one what is the meaning of liquidity okay what is the meaning of quantitative easing that you are pushing more liquidity if you push more liquidity then what happens asset price appreciation happens for example between 2008 to 2021 additional 23 trillion dollars were handed to the economy which led to asset prices appreciating for example real estate went up gold went up stocks went up US stocks went up Indian stocks went up everything went up okay quantitative tightening technically should mean what that instead of 23 trillion dollars floating in the economy now over the next few years because there is so much debt we should come down bring it down to like nineteen eighteen trillion dollars of money but will it happen no it will lead to a doomsday everything will collapse why will everything collapse because imagine what needs to happen for the world to go from 23 trillion dollars of liquidity to 20 trillion dollars of liquidity it means that you will have to take a 15% salary cut all of us will you be okay with that if tomorrow your boss comes and say that your HR comes and says that you know what okay you know quantitative tightening is happening in the world therefore you know 30% quantitative tightening is happening therefore I'll have to you know cut your salary by 30% I will have a very quantitative tightening I'll have to pick him up the way right so that's the point okay so no one likes a salary cut okay people need to be hooked to a drug right which is easy debt okay there is no other option people are just too dumb to understand economics okay and you can't explain it to them right so the point being that even government understands that there is nothing that you can do right it's like creating like a degrowth in the world right so you can't do it all you can changes by more time what does that mean slow down the rate of money printing right keep things sideways okay what happens when the when things are kept sideways when the rate of money printing is not or rate of liquidity increases slowed down the market goes sideways okay volatility increases okay everything will go sideways right so are we living in an artificial world yes okay can you do anything about it no okay can you benefit from it yes why because most people are dumb right and if you are in that top I percent who can make money you will make money right to using this knowledge okay so that's how it is okay so what is the meaning of it right you have to be a little bit contrarian in terms of making money if you are not contrarian then you know we as I be cut the cello and all that stuff BS will happen if the market is very is going like sideways then you need to understand how to invest in a sideways market okay so there are three types of markets I write that are there right and maybe I'll you know just quickly explain it right so one is called as up trend market so here it goes like this okay it goes down goes up goes down goes up see it will never go down like go up like this market it will always go up then there will be a retracement goes up retracement goes up retracement but overall long term five ten years it's going up okay number two is a sideways market okay it goes down up goes down up goes down up goes down okay so it goes like this yeah third is a down trend market yeah it goes like this okay now this third scenario cannot play out no okay because for this to happen there has to be asset price depreciation okay which means what that instead of having a outstanding balance sheet of 23 trillion dollars it needs to fall to 20 trillion dollars no country in the world is doing it because it will become a political nightmare to do it okay so all you can simply do is that either this will happen or this will happen so therefore in order to protect your wealth what do you need to do you need to invest at least 60% right I mean if you're less than 50 years old you should invest 60% of your money into growth assets right what are growth assets again that excel spreadsheet that I was discussing growth asset could be a real estate growth asset could be stocks growth asset could be US stocks growth asset could be Bitcoin wherever your stradalize you invest okay so that's not the point but the point is that 60% should be growth assets if you somehow assume that pf epf epf r growth assets you are just doing yourself a disservice okay so therefore like dream 111 which is making like people morally bankrupt or like or whatever like an financially bankrupt Instagram which is which kills your time and leads to doomsday scrolling and creates like just kills your brain power which is probably your best best asset and SIT right I mean I think these will be like the three biggest evals right I'm going for it okay so like a pf epf so that's the bottom line okay so yeah see SIP works great on the first type of market and the market is securely going up okay but is there a guarantee that that will happen my estimate is no it will not happen why why because there will be a retracement in the US market most likely US markets are still bloated okay and if the US markets are bloated and if there's no growth engine happening okay and then it can lead to a little bit of trouble okay now natural question comes that actually we are telling like very interesting things right and like what if dead bubble bursts okay so like okay so now what is the meaning of like dead bubble bursting how how dead actually bursts for example when you take a home loan I'm audible right okay yeah so what is the meaning of debt bubble bursting so let's understand from a micro example so you let's say you borrow for borrow like for a house one crore house you buy buy and you made like a few emi payments and suddenly you lost your job and some band problem happens and you are unable to repay that debt then what happens the bank comes and takes your house away okay there is a very clear problem okay now when we are talking about world level debt and if the US government defaults on its debt or Indian government defaults on it debt what happens that's does someone comment takes India right no okay what happens like I mean what's the first stage of that okay so which brings us to the third example recently Pakistan and Sri Lanka defaulted on their debt correct what happened there inflation okay so that's the evil of very high debt it's not as if there is some kind of time bomb that will burst somewhere and all that stuff Venezuela what happened right when the dead bubble burst or Mexico when peso crisis happened what happened there inflation becomes really high what is the meaning of inflation okay inflation inflation means that for example today you are buying apples at 100 rupees a kg and suddenly if India defaults on a debt it's not as if that someone will come after like Amit Shah and Modi G and all that stuff right they'll still be wish groups okay but the point is that your apple cost will go to like 200 rupees right from 100 rupees the next month it will go to 400 rupees then it will go to 800 rupees so what's the what is it that you should do I'm already doing it okay so like see number one one house okay number two one of farmland okay I own it okay number three learn agriculture number four own weapons okay so the fourth stage I'm not reached I don't know how to own weapons these four things and screw it right so the right so that's a simple point right so I'm not getting like you guys are smiling right hyperinflation is a very high possibility okay so that's a simple point okay so I know how to grow my vegetables okay so I have like what like I can grow my own vegetable survive okay I want to become like mini Russia okay but I'm in the right so their simple point is Russia could go on pay right so for example you put like so much sanctions and whatnot nothing why because it's a self sufficient economy okay similarly right your job should be to become self sufficient now many of your smiling laughing okay so let me give you another good food thought who are the happiest people in Bangalore Mumbai etc right people who are living in closed ecosystems like societies right because they have very nice security right CCTV they have very nice internal roads within their society they have very nice pool gyms what not what is society it is a self sustaining ecosystem they are their own electricity generator they are their own garbage problem the more garbage collection thing the moment you go out of your society you are introduced to a slum in a way okay but as long as you live within that society you are cool okay what's the next evolution to this they will call me like a doomsday or whatever like what if you think deeply about things that kind of starts making sense okay growing your own vegetables growing your own stuff is something that money cannot buy okay not kidding right the richest people just for example a rich rich low right and what do you think is the ultimate luxury for them you will say that yacht right trips and business or anything like that is money and buy but both money cannot buy even if you are 100 cross and you want to buy like fresh vegetables where will you how can you guarantee that it's pesticide free and all that you cannot right it's a problem right ultimate luxury for rich people all these guys Salman Khan Shah Rukhan be all own like farmland okay but it's not for the moment again I'm telling you right it's primarily for creating a self-containing ecosystem so any I hope that this was interesting a point being that debt whenever debt bubble bursts what it's going to do is whenever debt bubble burst what it's going to do is that it's going to create an inflation problem okay now here you need to understand the concept of hard assets and soft assets okay for example hard asset is gold real estate it's fixed in supply or a better way of putting it is that the supply of real estate or land cannot be dramatically increased so this is this is an economics is called a supply demand curve okay so this is demand curve this is supply curve okay for example if we compare cash or currency I and R okay if Indian government decides that hey today we have like four trillion dollar or four trillion rupees floating in the economy tomorrow they bring it to like you know 40 trillion rupees will they ask for your permission no they will just print it throw it in the economy and see them magic okay and you can't do anything okay so will they take seek referendum or any of that no let's bullshit okay but what about land right if you own some land right can suddenly like Indian government print like you know 40 more units of land and throw it in the economy no it's very difficult so real estate is a hard asset now within real estate also there are different segmentations for example two BHK flat in a township now almost a lot more supply of it can be added compared to a land okay what about commodity now commodity gold is a slightly more fixed supply asset compared to copper okay because copper is easier to produce what about stocks now where will you put stocks can more supply of stocks be created yes it can be created but how you need to think about it is that you need to think it on a spectrum okay so for example cash okay INR USD this can almost infinite supply of it can be created on the other side we have like land now can more land be created yes it can be right for example palm javelin palm jumera singapore does land reclamation so technically it can be created but this is very hard to do okay so for example if you know people start going to moon then technically it's more land right so when all that can be done but it's very hard okay so similarly stocks I'll put somewhere here okay so on a spectrum you can put stocks somewhere here okay can more supply of stocks can be created yes so more outstanding shares can be released into a network but is it very easy to do the short answer is no okay what about gold gold is somewhere here okay what about bitcoin bitcoin is like land okay so these are all hard assets or towards hard assets okay within cash for example if you were to hold so I would rather hold USD AD the terms INR right so INR is as soft as it gets or like you know Mexican peso is very soft compared to AD or USD okay so again you have to think about it on a spectrum right everyone with me okay so this is how you need to think about hard and soft assets and accordingly structure your portfolio the absolute basic that I will recommend is let's see when you're young when you're 20 25 all that it's completely okay to be 100% stocks 100% growth assets 100% softer assets it's okay to have cash because it gives you opportunity money iteration money okay but as you as your portfolio size grows right one set hits that baseline number right off let's say one and a half two crores you should start thinking about a small real estate okay it could be a basic flat right which is in a low rise low density complex okay now what does the meaning of low rise low density it means much other mochi building now okay where you can live if push comes to shove okay it does it does it cost crazy amount of money no set your budget buy it for like 60 70 lakhs don't buy it more than that can you find it yes it's not as if that it can be done highland go in by okay not a problem Indians can buy condos very high nice and nice as long as you're not buying like crap condos right I mean that's that's again doable okay but at least own like a basic flat where you can live if nothing kind of works out okay be highly pessimistic okay that's stage one right once you have hit that one and a half to CR mark okay but before that keep everything liquid keep everything high growth okay why because your portfolio size is not like crazy at that point in time now you're saying okay you are saying like one crore is like not crazy it's like very high number there's that by see like I'm just giving you genuine things okay in India that right now a crore is a good thing right you have need to earn like more money if you're not at that stage then you need to first figure out how to make more income right there's nothing I can do on that right you have to work hard work over the weekends even if you are a basic video editor you can make money it's not and video editing is picking up learn and you can literally learn that in three four months you can make like 56,000 on that okay so that's one right once you hit that three CR all this game of structuring between hard and soft asset comes into the equation every one with me okay but absolute basic next to three milestones are number one first one crore should idly go to your growth assets like stocks bit coin mutual funds all that stuff after that you start thinking about at least one basic place to live where you can live okay even if and adjustment is going to be done you know you don't require like five BHK will have to live this that stuff honestly even if you have a nice spacious two bedroom where living room can be converted into a bedroom you can live in that okay very well it's not as if you cannot right so even that can be done at least on a basic property these days right why am I saying it because see we are genuinely at a risk where debt defaults will happen now it remains to be seen where it happens it might first happen in Europe it might first happen in US it might first happen in India I don't know okay but the moment that happens inflation will go crazy and inflation will be high in the US and inflation will continue to rise even in India so whatever rents you are seeing right now like you know 75,000 come a Khan away or whatever I can almost say it with guarantee that in the next three four years it will go to one like okay so now if you cannot make that work for you right it becomes a slight problem therefore having the optionality of moving to a hard asset in tier two tier three cities or a city that you like where the cost is low please do that okay final point now this is not a real estate course I'll not speak too much about it many people get attached to the idea that C boss mine okries and like you know I'm working in like Bangalore so I need to buy a real estate in Bangalore don't do it you are just a basic apartment in Bangalore I don't know the rate but it will at least cost you one and a half years okay I'm assuming but if you move to like an outskirts of the city which is livable for you you can lower your option cost by 75 lakhs right similarly many of the you know I meet a lot of people in Dubai right young people young Indians working there we want to buy an apartment in Dubai only but you buy it in charge and it's half the cost right and it's much better right so buy it there if you want to just control your cost of living commute a little bit it's fine I understand it's a problem but you're not locking yourself into like you know double the time period of repayments right so I hope everyone understands that controlling this cost of living crisis when inflation hits really high it becomes a problem okay so which brings us to a very interesting conversation and we will move further in the class that's see it looks very exciting and it's a very natural question that's see if growth generation is so easy for example if Indian governments and you would have seen a lot of ministers we will become like Vixig Bharat by 2047 and we'll have like 50 trillion dollar economy then one one one three years or a half they're not 50 but it's a lot less right 99 trillion dollar economy will go then they're not going to do it so trillion will go right and all that now okay I can do this in one day make me the finance minister I can literally do this in one day how Kuchni Gannam is there right I mean I all have to do is that print 150 trillion dollars in the economy right and throw it okay so all I have to do is increase the liquidity by 150 trillion dollars it will make India 150 trillion dollar economy I mean say okay this is like a great game right I mean I can make India 150 trillion dollar economy but what's the downside what does it lead to it leads to something called as hyperinflation okay now for this what you need to understand is that you need to understand a very basic concept right um and governments what do they uh truly worry about right so what happens is and this is how you need to think about it you need to basically think about the goal of governments okay now government or like a country is like this car okay if you make Modi Ji the prime minister then Modi Ji the driver of this car okay so like and what is he kind of saying that he say that it was I'm like Michael Sumatra okay so I can drive like really fast okay and I'm the best guy okay and to prove that what does he want to what's the number that he worries about so number one he worries about GDP okay the faster you drive this car the more the GDP is right so for example therefore you keep on hearing all this BS that a GDP India third largest is that right and all that stuff right so let's make it like 50 trillion dollar economy and all that okay it keeps on happening so this is the first goal of the government to increase the GDP so in order to increase the GDP what can you do you can do quantitative easing right and that will create like a lot of growth right I mean if you print like 10 trillion rupees then India can become a 10 trillion rupees economy but what would it lead to it will lead to every day increase in prizes because it leads to asset price appreciation right now asset price appreciation not just happens on gold silver real estate all that stuff but it happens on apples oranges wheat dhal chava everything why because suddenly people 2 x or 3 x their money overnight then the price of everything also goes 3 x 4 x right so therefore the second goal of government is to keep inflation in check or inflation low why because this is where revolution starts because think about it this way that if the cost of apple goes from 100 rupees in 2025 to 1000 rupees next year or if the cost of rice goes from 50 rupees to 5000 rupees next year what do you think people who are unable to eat will do they will be on roads right they will block everything they will like you know kill the police or whatever right so I mean there's just madness that will go has it happened in history yes read French revolution read read any like any empire that has fallen right from Romans to ashtag empire Egyptians muggles the first thing that you will notice that there is inflation that happens a crazy amount of inflation okay for example muggles used to issue coins which are made of pure gold and it used to be this thick whatever that thickness was now towards the end of the muggles empire that the gold coins were made you know one tenth the their weights right same value what is that that's inflation okay so the bottom line I'm trying to tell you is that this inflation reflects on multiple ways similarly the there's a very good Netflix series it's called as ZARS CZAR which shows the decline of the russian empire right and how it the last ZARS that's the name of the series right if you go and watch it so the last ZARS or the last king of Russia was so disconnected from the from the reality that he had like no clue how much his general population was suffering now when do general population suffers when they don't have food to eat okay why do you think India is distributing so much freebies like Aata Dahls I will just free carry though right back he's right so why is that that is happening because a large section of India if they don't get free food they will revolt okay so figuring out and this that is the biggest nightmare of politicians so the twin goal of politicians is very simple right that number one improved GDP number two but not at the cost of inflation you can't have a revolution going on because that just kills the social structure okay so these two are two things of the opposite side of the coin if you print too much money very quickly then what it does is that it increases inflation in the economy and it brings a revolution so controlling both of these things is very important in fact if you look at the why do you think that the NIM government reports like inflation is 6% but if you go and check your own electricity bill this bill that bill and all that you will find inflation to be 10% so inflation data is always under reported but GDP data is always over reported okay why because it makes the government looks great okay so that's the bottom line right but to us as normal people who are investing our own wealth we need to be cognizant that about boss the inflation is 10 so I should at least grow my wealth at 12 okay so that is the type of strategy I should adopt but if if people who are dumb with economics they will assume that inflation is 6 pf middle they are 8 so bilirah right and tax free so my money is growing money is growing on paper okay excel right it not knowing in reality okay you lose money right so that's the practical difference okay everyone gets this okay okay okay so this is very important right so the goal is that see if the government does quantitative easing too fast right then what will happen inflation will also happen very fast right therefore and but if the government does not do quantitative easing then what will happen the economy will go sideways right why because most of the growth that we see in the world is money printed growth okay so the game that that has happened now is that increase accelerate growth then stagnate it then accelerate growth stagnate it now why are they why is this period really important this period of stagnation if you understand this then you understand how the investing because this is where real growth in GDP comes from okay for example if autonomous cars or self driving cars get built in the world what do you think will happen the real productivity in the world will improve why because people will have to spend less on transport they can reach faster through their workplace they can work more they can work while driving right they can work on their laptops or whatever right so then the enforcers will say you know what okay hard to take office I'm gonna do one to come come come come come come right and all that stuff so all that stuff will happen so basically when you are when humans are working in absolute basis they will increase real GDP in the economy okay so for example if India's growth rate or GDP growth rate is 6 6 and a half percent then four five of it is coming from inflation and 1% is real yeah similarly if you have to in this consolidation period right so we are waiting let's say that we have three years of consolidation then in three years of consolidation a few things will happen for example there will be faster semiconductor there will be faster processing times on things there will be improvement in technology there will be self driving cars I don't know right there will be hundred different things that will add productivity to the real world so that will genuinely like bring down debt and that will create something called as deflation okay so real growth is deflationary every year understands this statement okay money printing is inflationary so you print money because and the problem or the dichotomy here is that the governments have to show growth every year like incorporates need to show your salary growth every year you cannot say that you know what increase my salary once every three years you want salary increase every year that's a bad thing for nine year right laptop fake deniers I salary increase is not there right so I'll like do three job doing it right so the point is we are impatient okay so similarly with government also this is a genuine problem that they have to illustrate growth every single year but I'm not right so their strategy is very simple that increased growth either through money printing or by creating real growth will real growth happen in the world yes okay with time it will and therefore you increase growth create fake GDP then consolidated create real growth in both these phases and somehow balance the world right this is where we will stop okay I hope you enjoyed the first session right in the evening we'll complete the macro class but just to quickly consolidate five six topics that we studied we studied about different asset classes we studied what bad asset class looks like according to me pf e pf all that what is portfolio building it means having green signals across your five six asset classes that you're picking what is dead bubble how it exactly reflects what is asset price appreciation liquidity increase quantitative easing what is the meaning in the evening we will start the class with quantitative tightening okay all right so at this day I'll start taking questions guys but these were some of the primary points that we studied and hopefully this was not too taxing these are all very complicated macro topics that I tried to explain in simple language right I'll start taking questions from tofique okay and then you know I'll answer like 10 to 12 questions from the chat and then I'll open up the speaker also and then you guys can speak okay UAE has 0% taxation since there is no guaranteed will not change the coming as how should we plan for it on our macro level see go to lowest tax possible economy now will UAE be forever be a lower tax account I don't know like so but is it now so you plan there and then eventually you come out of it in case then increase taxes so but for now you should I don't think see UAE good thing is that it's a tax it's a cash rich economy so there is no incentive for them to increase taxes too much but you have to see this in relation to the world for example UK has close to 40 45% taxation which is absolute crazy in that context if UAE is incorporating 9% corporate tax it kind of makes sense right so not a problem and especially given the facilities that you get right so for example yeah when it's very structured right so when I I love UAE from that angle right I was never a UAE fan to be honest right I like Thailand more I have a house in Thailand by the way right so like that's more of a lifestyle living right so now I love go and Thailand more right from a long term living perspective but if I am if but if I am working and making money UAE so I would love it it makes no sense why would I you know go and live in like UAE in like UK and you know all that and pay like so much so much in taxes right so yeah kind of doesn't make sense yeah gold ETF same as physical gold no okay what's the difference gold ETF can be taxed we don't think about taxation right so for example if you have if for example Indian government says that gold ETF they LTCG will be 25 what can you do nothing you will have to pay but usually how these taxation works they will give you a base here okay now gold for example if you have gold right physical gold you'll say you made a Dadi gold right I mean this was purchased in like 19 and it's a big old axeloggering right so that is very hard yes so that's that's the difference that's one of the primary attributes second thing is called is capital control so capital control means that for example sometimes what happens is restrictions are put right in the sense that for example you know you cannot you cannot withdraw like gold ETF for some reason right for example Lebanon right so I have like I was working with a client right and Lebanese couple right and in Lebanon there was capital control that you can't withdraw money out of Lebanese bank account right and every day their currency was depreciating so all these complications are there whenever you give your money to government in any form that's government money right so this is something that I'll explain when I talk about main street money versus wall street money so this concept will get clearer but if you're owning gold you should own gold gold ETF is comparable to nifty 50 gold ETF is not comparable to physical gold okay physical gold has different attributes I'll deepen that grid right when I teach more but I hope that this was okay okay the legit has asked me okay no the legit I cannot do like stock advisory right so I mean I cannot review your portfolio Indians dogs I can't do right if you're an NRI then I can work one-on-one with you because I have a license that India is very complicated to get a license I've already put in I don't know how much time will it take okay I'm in US okay not in next class when will you load the next class by tomorrow it should be up right so it should be up then okay the list is just drop me like a link then I'll try to say I don't want any money from you right so it's fine okay yeah capital rotation I'll have a separate class on it right so when to sell is what capital rotation means but from today's example right I mean you need to know how to draw technical so when I teach technical analysis which is probably like next week when we do it next Saturday you will understand more today let's just go topic wise today was macro so if you understood these five six topics that I spoke understood the concept of asset classes then you're good to go and if after today's class if you figure out that it attacks arbitrage I need to take I'm a rich guy or if you say that hey I'm just starting I just switch from regular to direct that saves you money if you stop investing in PFE PFE PFE that's all saving money right in the long time okay I have home loan pay EMI interest to I close it in AMI in the month see you cannot make like 12% in every market type right right now is a good time to do it right I would say but see in India like I'm in try to it really depends on how much loans you have currently right if you have too much loans then it's a problem right so always never have loans more than 33% of your total cash inflows so if for example you your wife family in gum is let's say one lakh then the maximum loan EMI is 33 right so that is fine like that ratio kind of makes sense point three three but if it goes above that you're in danger and try to settle that loan don't worry about returns okay it's about good habits right it's like these are different things for example exercising in the morning right or have being physically active is a different layer of your life compared to spending time with your kids okay one is not taking this is not an and or all similarly having good financial health having low manageable EMI is different from growing your money so don't mix both these things as we become extremely greedy right here I have to double double like that that's one point okay say what's app community is same as youtube community little bit of differences but you'll get enough advantages on this so it's not as if that you need to continue that right so you can enjoy not a problem yeah but yes I mean if you want to read comments and all that is so that's you can retain not an issue in present market scenario is it better to stay on cash or buy stocks which have directed 20 to do it with knowledge that's more important it depends on a lot of things this will get clear right when we talk about like portfolio construction etc okay explain real growth some more what exactly happens in consolidation phases the pumped in money starts showing results yes that's the expectation this is called as capex or capital expenditure and this reflects in a matrix called as a gross capital formation gcf right so what it simply means is that for example opinion government borrows money because technically if it is expanding its balance sheet adding more liquidity into the system it is borrowing money and throwing it in the economy giving it to a dhani so you'll build like more four ports 20 airports whatever it is on public money in a way and public is paying for inflation in the short term now ideally in the long term those five airports 10 ports should add more productivity to India and create real growth right that's what should happen now if there are like you know corrupt idiots right now they will airport degree right so I mean Chathya Giri Raya and all that BSR that is called as wastage of money now that leads to poor gcfs right so poor gross fixed capital formation right I have invested in regular mutual funds six months ago doesn't make sense to switch to direct yes save commissions commissions are poison okay that's a lie simply telling you should you make capital gains tax or rent or rent the returns tax in India's and I like yes you will have to as far as I know in India NRIs are taxed on equities unfortunately right so if you're an NRI then you have you should have a larger portfolio in the US compared to that in India because like especially if you're a UAE based NRI because UAE taxes zero right for US investing so there is automatically at 12 and a half percent alpha which is huge shall I take loan and invest and stock market never okay so like see guys I mean my ideas bad habits can you learn you know there is no point right and then you will take loan you will make money then what do you guess what you will do next you will take even more loans make money then what you will do for the third time for time you'll become a addict okay off loan and one day you'll lose and you will go over what okay so I never do that game do see think about it this way that you are investing for 30 40 50 as I invest for my kids my teach investing to my kids yeah I'll help my which gives them a lot of opportunities freedom don't look at it as a short term profit maximization buying property and app cash if I can pay cash versus loan and put money in market and then take loan what should you suggest see 9% is your definite loan okay so 9% rate so this is not cheap loan that you're getting okay this is like almost a standard loan that you're getting I'll keep both these again it comes down to that same equation see if you're not over leveraged over leverage means that you don't have more than 33% debt on your head then it's fine right it depends on the type of real estate that you're buying what is the idea all that stuff maybe I'll do like a small concept note with you guys right subsequently in the course if time permits but just very quickly right I mean I would say that don't be over leveraged right I mean at any stage in India because in India the cost of borrowing is very very high right don't do it okay sorry yeah don't do this don't do this game if they are living in Europe okay ideally you should invest outside Europe Europe is possibly sitting if you're living in western Europe you're sitting except for like maybe Switzerland right all the countries are like in big trouble right they are expanding their balance sheet now and they are socialist by nature right so due to political due to say it's a cost that they are paying for high cost of living or sorry high quality of living so the quality of living generally in Europe was very high right because you have very good social security but what it indirectly means is that you're not promoting capitalism the way the US has promoted capitalism what it ends up doing is that it leaves were incentive for companies to shift there UK is witnessing that UK should be the first to go and witness something really bad right over the next few years so I would not advocate that you expose yourself to Europe too much right a much better way is China right so if you want to invest somewhere asymmetric bet invest like 10% 15% of your portfolio in China and see the magic okay so yeah that's what I would say okay uh someone is asking me working and looking wanting to shift to Dubai God offers from ISB say ISB MBA will not help you shift to Dubai right that's a problem in Seared can right so what like Dubai is like a very competitive market you have to network and all right so that's more important ISB has nothing to do with Dubai right so that's what I'll say okay employers PF does it not make it a good choice despite the negatives your call I can show you the math right and that's all I can say rest is your call up it's basically I mean it might be a much booty that you have to do it for example my wife had to donate like some money to I don't know like PM fund or whatever it's not as if that I was increasing or to do it but by default she had to right so there's nothing that she could have done right on that advice for ETF which invests on other countries I will do that not okay NSE unlisted uh unlisted we will touch but NSE over a long time is a solid asset right so then I would add little bit right see guys I'm not a property broker you don't need to buy like a real estate and go and guide us with the location and tell you no I'll I'm not like going to take like so much headache yes or like yeah no I cannot I can just generally tell you what you should buy right I'll just give you like general viewpoint then you come book a hotel live here for like five six days right scout speak with different brokers I'm not going to broker a contact with you you know I just say no yes so that's what I'll say but see good areas right I mean you can pick there are a lot of good livable properties that you can buy it like 78 TLX right in in goa yeah convert a corpus of one crore regular to direct just kill it whenever you can and immediately do it in direct because the commissions are getting paid every year no it's there is no point in you waiting too long because commission see it's like this so the value of your mutual fund in direct and regular will be 100 rupees okay now you kill it today so you'll get 100 rupees now you're immediately transferring it in two three days or whatever that same 100 rupees two regular whatever the tax implications etc you anyways will have to bear it at some point but at least this way you're saving commissions immediately right so different types of index I'll have a class right so if I move to ua and sell my us talks would have zero ltcg for the stock rule by the working in India yes as far as I know it should right because you're moving your account no and you're booking ltcg is applicable when you book profits as long as you're not booking profit now this since it says got to do with rsu's I don't have personal experience on it because I did not work with like a company that gave me stocks right so I don't know practically speaking right but as far as I can say right I mean if you're moving up portfolio right for example if you were let's say an Indian tax resident investing in the us market and then for some reason you move to ua right and then you booked your profits on the us talks in ua then your capital ltcg will be zero so for example like I'm in for example I have like clients who are in India like 100 to 100 crores guys investing in the us market like what's a sensible thing for them to do to become a tax resident of Dubai right for a year when they are booking ltcg yeah so is the current economy good to keep that or repeat again that's a debt measuring question can you can invest in ua basically like you need to open an account with with the Dubai stock exchange right which is I'm forgetting the name what it's exactly called I'll write the process and tell it to you guys okay check that type of information by the sub-savariya public city right so just use public city you'll get all the data you don't even have to look at the internet anymore right so just simply download public city on your phone use it on instagram your knowledge will improve idiots using instagram their knowledge will come down and that will be the biggest alpha on your money okay brain is what allows you to make money not like anything okay so build good habits uninstall instagram that's like key take away from my side okay so I'm a I create content I have never logged on to my instagram account ever yes or yeah buying ipos I don't do it anymore it it just doesn't make any sense either you buy unlisted before ipo or you buy it once it gets listed in the public market goes through a cycle and buy it after one two years okay okay how did you build this what can I do is you made and form okay hopefully this will get covered and you want right with time right so this I've answered physical golden in your UA UA right because everything is you cannot be tricked because you buy gold in UA as a tax resident of UA with your embedded siding so if someone takes you sells you fake gold or they do some guplet Vasi in terms of like the weight you have illegal backing so their shop will get closed so they can't trick you that's the point okay nps 30 see guys whenever someone tells you such complicated plans no key if you are in 30% tax like a 25% break 10 30 in nps how I don't like nps gives you 13% height does it give you like 13% actually after 25% break you're saying me but you're not paying like 25% tax no you're paying like 12.5% so your math is wrong okay every versus liquid fund yes LG so just write to me on LinkedIn okay so I'll do that right no problem every versus liquid fund which one is better see I haven't seen me there is a good more than the near it's a liquid debt fund my cut over it's one and the same thing okay to invest in every of what was more than no not at all right and that's what I'm trying to tell you right I mean don't confuse goals right for example if your goal in the morning is to work out then work out don't mix it with like you know something else okay so if your goal is to meditate then meditate don't mix both of them you do meditation for mental health right and you do hit exercises of weight training for physical health so don't mix the two okay so be very clear you're doing FD investments for iteration capital right that okay it allows me to run don't take unnecessary risk with that if you're going to make like half a percent more invest like maybe 1% more in between no right so when that solves your growth problem right no so so one asked that hey should I add more real estate that depends on the size of your portfolio my point was that I have at least one real estate now because a debt bubble is going to burst at some stage I don't know when maybe like one month maybe 10 years right and whenever that happens and India is going through an inflation crisis we are not seeing it yet why because we are net importers and I don't think that a currency is going to you know sort of get strengthened in the olden times our currency used to strengthen a bit right so I mean if you study the economics behind it right and it becomes like quite evident maybe if I die if I time like I'm in subsequently in today's class I'll try to teach it right so for example that was actually work right in India that in the last two three years I'll pull out the numbers and I'll explain that in the evening class but basically what has happened is that ours is a debt driven growth that we have done right in the last two three years and unfortunately the capital expenditure which is government expenditure so for example you would have seen that government has spent a lot of money on infrastructure government has spent a lot of money in building your ports highways this that stuff but for some reason that is not translating into real growth so that is where the problem happened in India right so for example there is a very good interview by Arvind Subramaniam so just search it on wire I think wire Arvind Subramaniam and you very explains the structural issue on India's economy so this is not a politically connected interview or any of that thing one on one and you can say that okay Raghunam Rajan is politically motivated or whatever but Arvind Subramaniam is a fairly neutral person used to work under Modi Ji right it's not as if that he did not right he eventually resigned and all that you will understand the the structural issue that is going on right so that's a good video I'll post it on the group okay stock picking guess so when to sell a stock we have separate class which type of properties in areas that best way I also allow to get a mortgage and thylane as a foreigner practically you will not get a mortgage to buy a property as an Indian resident anywhere yeah so you need to have money to buy it right but is thylane a good place to buy property I would say yes but you have to do your due diligence because the property rates are different for thine ashyles versus international people and there are specific agencies that cater to selling properties to foreigners and they sell it at much higher prices so as long as you're not buying those type of scammy properties you don't make money on thigh properties okay okay yeah gift gift gift gift to him on Madhupada gift city and all if you want to if you're an NRI he but none of your money outside India that's the simplest thing that I can tell you don't complicate things India is a very uncertain market right if a country can ban its own notes anything can happen I am just being you know very vocal about this topic because other people will not tell you very reality just keep it outside what's the benefit for example almost every bank in Europe every bank in UA gives you the option of having multi currency accounts right so you can have like euro account you can have US account you can have their own accounts right and free of cost right and the conversion between those currencies is also free in that account so for example if you have dirums and if you trust like I don't know euro so your forex trading can happen for free but all these options are not there on gift city as far as I know right okay so okay and I'll try okay ETF I'll cover no there is no class on goa real estate this is top market for sky okay so yeah real estate requires regular effort and older age gets available plus expense when you know close through time creation what about gold which gives you cushion and also no maintenance cost as a preceding you're right I'm not saying that but the problem is that gold serves a different purpose real estate serves a different purpose if India ends up like a fraction of what happened in Pakistan Sri Lanka Venezuela we go through that inflation problem can you live in your gold no you can still like you will still have to own like real estate problem with real estate is that see construction of the real estate takes time so like in that two three year period when you're struggling for housing because your owner and in India problem is that the tenancy laws are absolute pathetic right for example like in certain countries UA charge like and all that Emirates there is a very specific tenancy law that you can't increase if you're if you're renting from someone the house owner cannot increase rent for three years in charge okay similarly there isn't rira index in you in Dubai right according to that only you can increase rent it's not as if you do manmarziya karadowana bhagjawakal right and all that stuff so whenever hyper inflation problem happens this is housing is the first thing that gets you messed up right so to control your cost of living in a country like India which is expected to face high inflation having some exposure to direct real estate kind of makes sense okay the cost of construction will not go up crazily right I mean even if you own a land and if you're as you're part of it to be it's fine right but at least one summer real estate right at some stage right after once here okay I'll I'll give you an understanding of my portfolio so you have a separate portfolio building class I'll bring that okay I'm new investor I'm spending options on days and working you away okay I will be sure let me try like what advice do you want I mean how you let me okay did not understand why real growth is deflictionary okay so for example I'm sure that you know of what is the meaning of PE ratio right surprise to earnings okay now similarly if you look at it from an economy point of view real GDP what does it do it increases the earning of the economy right so the earning is the denominator so if the economy itself look trizy but the earnings go up of the economy due to real productivity therefore the PE ratio will come down right so therefore it is deflictionary in nature right how to invest in other countries okay so you were you were investing we have a class right so I will help you understand same kind of principles apply in US right so I will cover this right in that session right US DT I would not hold right it's better to own like US dollar directly if you can right in India you can't hold foreign currency unless through NRE account right so yeah how to create a two-crore portfolio so someone having zero exposure to how to create a portfolio someone having zero exposure to how to create okay so portfolio building we have a class I'll answer it mathletes have answered this question that you just simply cut and move to direct there is no point in paying unnecessary expenses I like the point of controlling how to create a question and I'm so right time to buy a property by living long term in which phase of your life but let's say specific income level should you focus on real estate whether let's say living in if living in UK see I would not advise you to own a property in UK now you might disagree with me but here is the argument right the population of India is rising right and it will continue to rise till 2065 so real estate is a bullish play in India but when it comes to Europe the population of Europe is shrinking because it's a Egypt population to start with now of course there will be pockets like central London all that it has like limited supply and whatnot but generally the rains in India will go up because the population is increasing and generally right on a base case scenario the rents in UK should come down right because the population is shrinking a classic case studies in the middle which is UAE right that UAE cost of living is typically high right and they are trying to increase their population base and UAE government is one of the most efficient governments in the world right they are very strategic right and they will increase their population base so it kind of makes sense to own properties in like regions like UAE India right because of the expectation of population increase now UK I can't understand like the reason to own a house I would rather rent right and also the property taxes in UK as far as I know are high so like that's another problem right I'm thinking of getting real estate out of my current portfolio in India plus US is still not should I get real estate or not no you should first build liquid real estate okay so that's okay content about teaching investments to kid absolutely service area okay I'll try okay good real estate opportunities in Bangalore China you simply buy a fund right so I mean Hansang index it's already listed on India if you go on kite by zero or something and if you if you search Hansang index and there's a video also that I've done on this topic how to invest in China it's a public video so you guys can watch it not a problem those living in UK what should we do those living in UK diversify out of UK that's literally step one okay so so many people are moving from UK to UAE because of high taxation in UK right so it's very important that you move to like a low cost of taxation economy right Malaysia UAE are my two topics if I have to like pick like two countries which are tax efficient and kind of makes sense to live there it will be Malaysia and UAE now UAE people primarily have complaints than the cost of living is very high but honestly cost of living in Dubai is very high but if you move to like Emirates like Ajman or if you move to Emirates like Sharjah etc the cost of living gets dramatically cut because your rents get dramatically cut right now that's not an option that everyone would have but like that's like an option that some of you can explore okay how do I transfer India funds to Dubai now it depends on your resident status right so for example if you are a tax resident of India then you have to do it via what do you call liberalize LRS scheme right so you can add the most transfer approximately two crores out of India every year legally okay if you're in NRO that that means that you are a tax resident of some other country then you can move up to a million dollars from India to abroad yes so I'm holding for you guys when we purchase unlisted it's at like it went to six hundred now it's back to one listed price right so but it's a good consumption play I'm not I I doesn't make sense to like you know sort of it doesn't make sense to sell it okay okay to invest in enhancing index yes yes it's it's a good index you can even buy it it just started to give break out it is up like thirty thirty five percent right no so if for people living in UAE the capital gains tax from Indian stocks is twelve point five okay and out of one ninety six countries India is the only country in the world which imposes capital gains tax on for FIs or foreign investors not FIs foreign if you do this again in US the capital gains for you is zero okay so this was one of the complaints that you know people have like sort of pushing and yeah like in Suntani and like I got a little bit more tool trade case this has been changed yeah you need to be from goa to buy probably no nothing like that I'm not from goa multiple properties here in fact my biggest portfolio is in goa arrested market okay where to keep keep emergency fund evd's nothing nothing complicated to be done and evd's with top tier banks and forget about like you know g1 is giving this much and you know for an IDFC is giving me this much and all that just keep it at top tier banks okay estimate how do we estimate what a real estate on percentage of home loans that you have paid so for example if you have you took a five ten year loan and five you own five where you have paid so one could and there's a very high probability that you will be able to pay the rest of the loans also then you consider 50% value of it okay mutual fund regular to direct yes you can convert no problem a ud currency deposit into usd okay that's interesting I have not studied Australian dollars yes so not sure but is it is Australia not like stable currency right I mean is it like going down and not sure I'll study it it's not that complex but Australia is definitely high tax as far as I know but like from a currency wise I'm not sure right okay um Rajesh I cannot do this for the Indian community right I do have an NRI community right which is separately run I do it on that okay staying in Malaysia should I invest in India or US and Malaysia stock market keeping in mind zero taxation outside India so you should invest primarily in US UA Malaysia good thing about Malaysia is that basically it's a very good turn around economy right now right and like I mean having for example buying land Malaysia is kind of makes a lot of sense right so you know I am looking into it right so I don't like Malaysia that must be honest like from a living point of view I like Thailand more but if I were in Malaysia I had comfort in Malaysia I would have bought a land there because there are very few foreign countries in the world that allows foreigners to own land in their country and Malaysia as well which is really good right so investing in Bitcoin or only through West India see buy Bitcoin ETF if you can't buy Bitcoin don't buy it through Indian exchange like coin DCX and all that because then what ends up happening is that you have to liquidate it before transferring it anywhere and then you're subjected to very high taxation right I'll talk Japan Japan is not really an investible market right for multiple reasons because they don't want to increase inflation in their economy so you never end up getting like very high absolute or nominal returns right so not absolute written nominal returns is not enough I'll explain this case study is it right time to buy stocks in Indian stock shock market yes okay so I'm 95% invested I am bullish right am I bullish on a secular basis no I am bullish on valuation basis keep up balating and you should be able to book like 15 20% profits yeah what is your take on stake for investment is no I don't do it why that yeah so Bitcoin investing no I'll not cover on stock this is stock investing right right so fractional investing yeah fractional investing is possible in BTC no so I only by Bitcoin and cryptos right advantages of holding real estate through real estate company because it becomes a corporate entity in India and corporate tax and India is low right so the highest income tax in India is like what 40% 42% with the highest corporate effective taxes like what 25% right so how much of my money should go into gold or silver as an investment how much of my money we will have a separate portfolio design class so we'll cover it there gift city aif for NRIs okay okay okay see ideally if you are in Singapore now Singapore capital gains is 0 okay dividend distribution tax I'll have double check how much it is but honestly like there is no major advantage you'll get by coming to gift city can you be a UAE resident for tax purpose and maintain yes you cannot become a UAE tax you can become a UAE citizen also like on exceptional basis but generally it is not done tax residency means in which country you are paying tax okay citizenship means that which country you are a citizen of so most of the Indians working in UAE are citizens of India and they are picked being taxis in Dubai or UAE okay okay guys I'll try to like do some portfolio reviews in front of entire class okay so subsequently okay important to have a second house in tier 1 tier 1 tier 3 township in primary source in number 1 or in our second house in tier 2 city or tier 1 you know that really depends on what you want right and maybe we'll talk if the end of the course is not clear let me know right but hopefully it will give you like so give me some time now this should get clearer with time should I continue sing up if you are in Singapore you should invest more in US because capital gains is not there if you are investing in Singapore capital gains will be there like very similar to how it is for UAE tax resident in India okay okay where should NRIs invest currently depends on which countries NRI are you okay so like that's how do we tax resident of UA there is a video that I've done right so you can check about that that I've explained like 15-20 minutes okay if I have an NRI account in India does it make sense to invest in US for closing the account it would not matter no it's so like I don't think it will matter right will you also cover how can we save taxes in India with living in India via different types of investments see generally you should invest in in equities equities and most tax efficient in India and real estate may if you're owning multiple real estate then form a maintenance company on it right real estate maintenance company register it as a corporate entity and manage it via that because then you can do various expenses via that right so it lowers your bottom line and corporate taxes are low which mutual fund yes so mutual fund will have and invest SWP mutual fund good we are buying you cannot create a regular income from stock market stock market is for growth not for regular income and this is something that I covered in the start of the class rent return should you pay capital gains tax or rent returns you have to pay I don't think you can not pay that okay thank you but right thank you is Goa still a better place to invest in yes Goa is a wonderful place right I mean unless you are mine over high to properties at north work right so yeah individual HNI any perspective on HNI account what is the meaning of HNI account I don't understand okay landy money moved Dubai India first would you be good idea so what are the tax implications you have to sit and plan properly so as an NRI Priyanka so just drop me like a link then I'll connect you with right guys on this guessing Australia is high tax and very high inflation so then owning a property might make sense right see whatever high inflation economies are there you should own properties or at least one property investment in India as NRI yeah yeah so that I'll cover it's literally I'm a case study like I'm investing in India as NRI I have some family money which I would like to move to Dubai from this I've answered more do you do the current condition what are your thoughts on this is a part of US portfolio and the community you know okay Bharati see I mean it kind of makes sense to do both right in India and US for you right I'm doing the same so just keep following whatever I'm doing right not clear on investing in Bitcoin from India see buying Bitcoin via vested ETF is much better compared compared to because that becomes like a stock it's not Bitcoin investing so your taxes are but if you buy Bitcoin in India then the taxes are very high right no no I'll not review portfolio I'll just pick some parts of it and teach it right so that's how I'll do it I'm not not taking any money or extra thing I cannot legally do it okay in all fund houses since inception of a long time investing I can save lakhs on my returns NPS returns are 12 in fund houses I don't know and I'll just double check okay shall I invest in India or US in China so Norway I'm assuming you will have a barely high capital gains tax it doesn't matter you can invest anywhere yeah from lakhs to ten crore how you have improved your portfolio okay so this I'll try to answer like subsequently okay so yeah okay that Kumar and Paul yes he's going to yes sorry I might have already covered but still asking the question how do you become a tax resident of UAE how do you become a tax resident three options one is that you set up a business number two is you find a job number three is that you become a freelancer right so these are three options right you get so for example you can become a freelancer right I mean there is a freelancer visa in UAE you take that license right not hypercomplicated get it to get it then you have a a renewal cost of that right so it will be three four lakh rupees every two years right then you live in UAE for six months right yeah and then you get your TRC tax residency certificate okay or you find a job so that the company issues a visa or you set up a business right yeah oh sorry yeah Paul Haroon hi actually the good afternoon am I audible now yeah I have gone through this complete video thanks for this session and I completely agree that we can't do the capital rotation for long term in NPS okay but my as per my study we are having 12 to 14 percentage of returns over a long term in all the pension fund houses what I have learned and that also non-taxable so we can save tax in a lakhs if you are continuing for up to 30 years say for example my age is 30 years up to 60 years if I do NPS means I can get the non-taxable income though it is from the government I quite doubt about that in future also they may give some kind of they will put it is not sure yeah so what is your opinion about this because I can get a non-taxable returns if I do SIP in 50 50 comparatively so it is better no so see I mean the assumption is that you will make like 12 14 percent returns I don't know if that is actually true the NPS thing that you are telling me because NPS even the money is invested in the market instrument and then there's a pension fund managing it so pension fund will never take like that level of risk I don't know how they are making 12 14 percent returns mathematically it doesn't make much sense but let's assume that you're correct like that NPS actually gives 12 14 percent returns there's no guarantee that that will continue to happen that's one second is that you don't get the option of capital rotation the way you will get it on nifty so on a 30 year basis right if you are rotating capital only once on nifty I'd add an opportune time then also you are making much higher returns and one more thing our mr. Saurav Mukherjeev's also very supportive for this NPS he's also personally doing in all his videos he's saying and then it kind of gives me more bullishness that if Saurav Mukherjeev's bullish on something I'm bearing on that right so that's what I'll say thank you so much and one more question regarding the SWP for SWP we have in this session itself we have discussed 12 percentage as a inflation and the 16 percentage is the return that four percentage withdrawal will be for all the every year so if the market doesn't give any return for the consecutively for two years or three years certainly after the third year after the second year it may rise up okay so it will compensate the returns right yes it will therefore I'm saying that you know SWP plans on great in theory but it is you know practically it's very difficult to execute if you want to withdraw see it really depends on the size of your portfolio if you're like at like three four CR plus range eventually at the age 16 now and you have three four CR then you have to like you know invest in like cash flow assets which kind of helps you meet your daily expenses right so and you can all depend on the market for that stock market is great for growing your wealth stock market is not a place where you get like regular returns from your investment because for example if we buy like let's say private banks ETF now it might very well go two year more sideways who knows right so for example ITC was a decent stock it went sideways for 10 years okay so yeah I mean I say you cannot for the safer side only we are having this four percentage withdrawal every year means if it is giving eight percentage as or also it will be very good right no for example in the last one year if you would have done SIP on your mutual fund and you invested 100 rupees now that is at 85 now because it is end of the year you will withdraw 4% more now you're withdrawing money in a market which is already 15% down so what sense does it make to do SIP this year yes right I got it but after considerably two years 30 year fourth year it may catch up the returns right might might not I cannot say that ITC did not come back up for 10 years that's my point okay very feeling very honored to speak with you thank you so much Arun Anketha Sandra yeah I actually in that order yeah Anketha and Sandra yeah yeah so I actually I have approximately 70 lakhs in my fidelity account and it's in the US and I was thinking of moving that money to real estate but currently my India plus US stock portfolio is approximately 15 lakhs should I target one hitting one crore first and then moving to do okay okay thank you so much idly right I mean unless you get a distress sale or something right yeah I'll share with Sandra here I'm 44 and I would not say that I'm very financially not eligible also and neither I have the inclination to spend a lot of time on that okay so given my age and my net worth is around 5cr also you think it's a good move to open offshore account and move some funds even if it is for emptying in dirhams yes it is yes yes yes yes it's not as if that you need to spend too much time UAE you are making like 4.75 if you are a UA tax resident then taxes 0 inflation is 2 so real wealth growth is almost 3% on FD's risk-free right in India that's minus 3% so there is a delta of 5% right between investing in UAE versus India because of taxation and inflation any idea on the taxation if I'm an Indian tax resident with this so any every that you do Indian government is going to you know put whatever taxes they're generally charged here okay thank you yeah um Kanchan Suleesh hi hi Akshad so you answered my question on bitcoin ETF but can you suggest any specific ETF that we should go for for investing in bitcoins because I know I I mean I actively invest in bitcoin waste through wasted but it also has exposure to a lot of equity in terms of the companies that have exposure to bitcoins right but if I want to or pure bitcoins how how to invest in or on I'll search for the ETF exactly ETF and Lekyan okay in the community yeah I'll write a note okay sure all right uh solution I don't uh um so I'm I'm uh living in the UK uh I have a job at only house here um so if I get a chance to move to UAE um so what should you say Sudeh sell my house or rent it as an investment and just worry about what you said about you get I don't know man I mean selling a house buying a house in UK is not my area of expertise I'll not comment too much on it and I can just generally tell you that you know because UK has a series of problems it kind of doesn't make sense so the the the the economy is like on a slippery track okay that's how I'll put it right uh doesn't make sense I mean why would like UK grow right and the entire Brexit was an item where labor party government is not you know sort of creating any bullish sentiment in UK people are fleeing UK uh half of UAE like I'm in a big chunk of UK has moved to UAE taxes already very high health care is broken right doesn't add up right now it's not sensible to like sort of you know bet on investments in UK even if you're living in UK you might like living in UK might be a great place for lifestyles but from investing it might not make sense there should be some trigger of growth right I mean for example the India growth story is not IT or anything it's just population growth okay so as population grow the GDP will grow automatically because of that's not we don't require any genius to do anything okay so that's at least India story you US China at least tech is there they're innovating they have research capital what is UK doing right so I mean their population is shrinking they don't have any good political structure the the um yes that's how I put it thank you nice talk to you yeah actually would be taking some hedging strategies like for example I hold a lot of my company stocks in RSUs recently when the deep seek news came I could say a lot of well slowing away so any emerging strategy will be over with broad call okay so it's like one of my stocks also and so like hopefully it's our wives right so what any is I might see a hedging strategy is very simple don't invest more than 5% of your capital on any single stock that's like diversification basics of diversification when I teach like portfolio building I'll cover that also but to cut the long story short even if you're working with broadcom and you understand the company really well don't have more than 10% exposure so just diversify within the same segment right I mean it might make sense for you to buy like semiconductor index and like you know diversify a little bit there okay my question is like this fn on options or anything like that will help in such a short how big is the portfolio actually significant of my salary comes from that stocks problem that happens is the moment you get into fno you have to reposition at xpd which requires constant monitoring there what is a little bit complicated nice therefore the easiest way to hedges diversification within your asset class so don't have more than like 10% exposure of broadcom to begin with so that requires less monitoring now you're in a day job might not be able to like you know if there is a significant moment your stop loss doesn't get triggered then you this massive loss that you can take even on like derivatives right so yeah okay thank you yeah um concussion yes it is to add out to my bitcoin question on vested there are certain other investment instruments like grayscale bitcon cash draw stand grayscale bitcon mini trust so if while you are writing the note if you can give some some more information about what are those and does investing into those instruments make sense that would also help i'll do thanks yeah so i wanted to ask like i did not completely understand why you are saying pf e pf and maybe nps is not good because what i know is it is not taxable if you keep it for more than five years okay and someone said already that in ps can give us a better return because in ps we can choose the we can choose the which in which category you want to invest in you in in ps you can like risky category and low risk and so so that option is there for us okay so here is the data right and so that claim is incorrect right to begin with so here is like and again like public city is like a life saver okay so here is how much returns nps gives so the range is 9 to 12 percent yes so this is what it gives right analyzed over the years right so it's not 12 12 percent is for risky category now the benchmark you cannot compare it that 12 percent return to nifty 50 okay this 12 percent will include like i don't know what okay so and it kind of makes structural sense also right i mean here the pension fund is managing your money so they will do it more conservatively their focus is not wealth erosion and moreover you are paying money to pension fund manager or free for the money right so they are going to charge you some money so like 12 percent on nifty is equal to 10 percent on nps so even if you adjust for tax it's net net the same plus there is zero flexibility on nps because minimum lock in is 5 years on nifty 50 there is no lock in for example you buy nifty 50 now in 5 years it will cut at speed and you are able to at least capture 20 percent returns and you can rotate that capital therefore it doesn't make any sense to lock your capital on a 10 year basis and so it's like what do you think it is so there is no point in like you know sort of investing in nps and making less return than nifty 50 so that's what math tells us and that's what even like you know even check the rate also yes yes yes hello akshad I wanted to ask you when you want to invest in newer economies new countries what are we co-5 important macro economic indicators we want to you know we want to look at so that we can filter out here so this is like a good economy to invest I mean we could even invest in even in Bangladesh like what are stopping us from doing that see number one is that you need to buy for kid between like emerging markets and emerged markets right so for example that's a very clear bifurcation because it gives you diversification okay for example should all of us invest in India in one emerging market and one emerging market the answer is yes yeah now the second that's layer one right so for example it makes zero sense to invest in India and Bangladesh and Nepal and like you know Sri Lanka all because they are all emerging marketplace okay that's point one right so second diversification is that you must understand that you can are you taking some asymmetric bits asymmetric bit means that something which is which has a chance of growth but it is not as overvalued for example UA stock market right E-MAR which is one of the top builders in UA which has built Dubai mall push Khalifa that trades at a P multiple of 10 but the money enterprise which is again an infrastructure company one could argue trades at a P multiple of 50 so like where is asymmetric bit right so I mean you invest in E-MAR sit for like next 30 years there will be a phase when E-MAR will might have a P of 30 who knows right so that's a 3x multiplication automatically okay so yeah so I mean that's how I'll look at things where there are options but it's a more complicated topic so I'll not be able to like just do a Q&A but hopefully like I'm in after the session it might make no sense after the all the classes it might make no sense yeah all right Namesh yes yes my question is similar to one of the questions that was asked earlier so most of my savings are in RSUs from my company and some in cash about 60% in RSUs and around 40% in cash and I want to diversify so what should be like the best strategy for me I will I will teach portfolio building probably tomorrow night right so maybe it will make more sense then but quick answer is that you should not have exposure to one single asset means one single stock of more than 10% ever right even if you're working for that company right so that's the simplest thing that I will say that you sell some of your stocks as you and when they are maturing and have like investments in other similar companies if you understand okay yeah I have been selling every now and then but I'm not sure what to do with that cash you buy more yeah I mean buy some of that yes yes yes yes yeah hi Akshak can you have me so I'm up right now and so I'm also planning to go back to India as well so and I have a investment in India Indian market right now and today I claim that ltcg sorry this benefit because of double taxation treaty now if I go back to India is does it does it make sense for me to sell all the stocks before moving back to India and then again for you there is no capital gains tax are you sure that's what my C8 only but I left a double check so I'm here for us two years and I'm only investing not with going in capital gains tax for Singapore tax resident is zero but you have to pay taxes in India right so that's the point okay so I'm not sure it just double check it I'm not because I'm not doing it in Singapore I don't know but the rule for UAE is that for example or whatever investments I have in India the moment I sell it I have to pay taxes in India for sure right so that's the same problem that has been happening right despite UAE having zero percent capital gains right so that's the same thing right uh yeah so not sure right so there's double check it but yes if that's the case right that you don't have to pay any taxes then it makes sense that you sell everything that you own in India right now before moving to India yeah see actually it was told that Singapore does not have uh text on text on capital gains okay even UAE does not have it yeah but India and Singapore has a treaty called a double taxation award in treaty even UAE in India has it so that's what maybe the CA was telling me because of this reason if I am uh double taxation avoidance agreement means that you don't have to pay tax twice right but the problem in India is that India's a tax legon upside right I mean for example if it were the case that you are paying capital gains in India and capital gains in UAE then that is that falls under DTA right but what is happening is that you have to pay tax once somewhere but anyways this is a CA question so I'll yeah thank you thank you very good okay so I'll see you like in a few hours right I think two and half hours right so yep uh we'll meet then right but I hope you enjoyed this session and I'll see you soon right and okay okay all right so I'll see you in like a couple of hours okay