Transcript for: Live Session II - Macro Economics you need to understand about the stock markets Part 2 -
Transcription Date: 2025-03-30 02:17:26.123304
==================================================

 Okay guys, I hope you guys are back. All right, I hope this is not very taxing right? What is a taxing? I don't know, so yeah, okay. All right, so, all right, so let's start with three questions, right? And this would be like a quick sort of pause here, right? Question number one, will the Indian markets forever keep going up? Now see, in investing, we all love certainty that, you know, okay, just tell me like one golden rule of investing. I'll just follow that and forever like till that day I die, I'll just follow that and there's nothing, okay? There is no such thing as forever, but at least for a foreseeable future. Three five years, that's the maximum foreseeable future or anything. It doesn't look like it, right? The Indian market will securely go down. Okay, that's the idea, right? Which would give you comfort to invest for three to five years? Me on that, we don't know. What if you don't invest in these three to five years? What happens to your wealth? As I was saying early, like come in in the morning session, that India, certain economies in the world, for example, India, okay? It is a high inflation economy. Okay, now what is a low inflation economy? For example, Japan is a low inflation economy. Okay, US is a high inflation economy. So the point being that if you're living in a high inflation economy and you're not investing, okay, or you're sitting on too much cash, the value of that cash goes down dramatically. Okay, that's problem one. Problem two is that you need to understand the baseline or like, no, risk-free rate of growth of your asset. As I was telling, for example, if I do FDs in India, okay? The problem is that I'll do the FD at 7%. After tax, after tax, I'll make 5%. Inflation for me is 6%. At least, like even official. So minus one, I'm anyways making. Okay, in UAE, my risk-free rate is that I'm doing an FD at 4.75%. I play zero tax, okay? Inflation for me is 2%. So I'm making a plus 2.75%. The delta is 3.75% at least. Okay, so here I have an option of RF, okay? But here I don't have an option of RF. So by default, I have to take risk with my money. Can I solve that equation for you? No, I can't. What you can do instead in India, rather than keeping money in cash. If you're not comfortable right now, for example, if you feel that you know what market is like all-time high, for example, here, if you're looking at the market, let's say here, I'm in the market, okay? For example, you are looking at the market here, right? On the 8th member, it's at all time high, okay? And you're feeling a little bit if you need to do it or not. What is it that you can do? Simplest thing. What can you do with your spare money? Buy gold, okay? I don't know anything about that. This simply buy gold, okay? That's okay. Still, right? Buy land, if you do, like, you know, when if you don't, like, liquidities an issue, but all these things are still better wealth protector, rather, or they are like the new RF rates in India, okay? So that's much better to do, okay? What's the utility of FD? Again, I keep on stating that it's iteration money. So for example, if you just don't consider, if you're not considering some money as investment, if you're in a high risk job, then having some FD kind of makes sense. But if you are in a very safe job, for example, government employees, I meet, job be safe, right? And 99% wealth is logged in FD. So that's horrible, okay? That's as bad, okay? So there's no point in doing that, right? So the FD money just simply gives you iterations, and it allows you to run experiments, okay? That's two. You know, third point, right? Okay. So market goes up in QE also. Market goes up in QT also. Then why not buy and forget? That's a very good question. Because what happens is, there are two types of corrections in the market. One is called as price correction, and one is called as time correction in the market, okay? Now what is price correction? So for example, the market was going up like this, okay? It hit like 26,500. Then it corrected 15%. It reached like whatever, 22,000. This is called as price correction, right? Now, this is not something that most of us, this is not where you will make a loss, okay? As long as you're investing here, again, okay? Whatever new money you are getting. The problem that happens is that market sometimes move in a range. Like this. And if you're not booking profits here, and you're not buying more here, you are just simply on random dates putting money, randomly, right? Wherever the market is. That can lead to significant time correction on your portfolio. Okay? That's a point, right? For example, in this current fall, if you would have sold your small caps before the fall, did your portfolio correct much? Just a for example, I made a video where I analyzed my portfolio after 15% fall. So you can check that, right? There are some things on the way, right? So why? Because I sold small cap 250 before, right? So I was very little on small caps. But if you would have bought speculative stocks like defense, railways, all that stuff, then some stocks corrected by like 45% also. De-mart, all that stuff. If you did not book like profits on cam, CDSL, all those type of stocks, then again, it was an issue. So the point is that whenever you start understanding that is some sections in the stock market are overvalued, book some profits. If you're not doing that, then your CHGR will suffer. And that's the game we have moved on to. The sooner we get it, the better it will be. Okay? Why? Because there is massive time direction on markets now. Okay? So let me explain that also. And let's go to 5050. See, there are phases in the market when the market corrects. So market goes sideways. Okay? Now let me explain that. Okay? Now we're moving all this. Okay, so let's go from 2008 onwards. And let's look at it on monthly handle. I think that will make more sense. Okay. Okay. So I think this is a good shot to analyze, right? And here, for example, if you are one of those people who chases the market. Okay? When everything looks high, you start investing because you are a FOMO investor. Okay? So what would have happened that when did this market level recover? This recovered after 10 years, right? So 2007, say 2014, but this was a side-based market. Okay? If you would have done a lump sum at. Okay? If you would have done a lump sum here. One crore, the value of this one crore would have been here. Okay? Now the problem is, let's see, we typically do not invest like this. That okay, one round of investment done here. And we keep on holding it forever. What would typically happen is that if you did one crore here, market falls by 20%. Your portfolio is minus 80 lakhs. So you are at a loss of 20. You'll say, okay, you know what? Markets of AAPS are coming. Then it goes to like 60 lakhs. Again, there is no such thing. There are a lot of big things. There are a lot of small things. And all that. So in two-three films, I will log right. By the time you did it, like 30 lakhs, one crore, 30 lakhs, you are out. You will book like 70 lakh profit or 70 lakh loss and you are out. Okay? Why did this situation occur? Because you started investing. Your first bulk or your entry point on the market was very high. Okay? You make money at that time. So this was a very good, you know, quote that was given to me my season real estate investor. That you make money in real estate at that time of entry, not at the time of exit. Okay? And which is absolutely true. That somewhat applies to the stock markets also. That for example, if you entered here and you start seeing losses like here, here, here, here, you will not have the courage to hold your portfolio. Okay? Because your entry was really bad. But if you would have invested in an average market, for example, in here. When you're not investing in a peak. Okay? So for example, let's say, where is. So three types, right? So one is peak. So we have analyzed the speak. For example, this is a peak. Okay? This is a peak. This is a peak. This is a peak. Okay? This is a peak. This is a peak. Okay? This is a peak. This is a peak. This is a peak. Okay? These are peaks. Okay? But if you invested here, now what was the situation like? How would you react psychologically speaking? Here, you made 21% profits first. Okay? And then you lost like whatever like 18% money again. Then you could have potentially downward average rate or something of that sort. So your entry point becomes really important, right? So I hope that this first point is clear to everyone that your point of entry on stock market is absolutely critical. Otherwise, most of us will book losses and go away. Or we will not have the courage to downward average it. Okay? Now, how do you relate it to 2025 right now? Now, what is your point of entry on the market right now? It is still 10% down. Okay? Bagi is up. Leave it. But at least it is like roughly 10, 11% down at current levels. If you literally right on Monday, if you go and invest in the market, you're probably buying the market 10% cheap. And how would you define the entry point? Right? Is it expensive? Is it average? Is it low? Now, see, I don't know if it is expensive or not average, we I don't know. Low is, I don't know. It definitely is not low. Maybe it is somewhere between this and this. So at least like 60, 70% of my capital should be there. Stock investing is a broad investing game. Stock investing is not a specific investing game. Okay? So I hope you got the point that your entry into the stock market is absolutely critical. For example, I am right now building positions on US stock markets. Okay? So I'll quickly show you. So what is my entry point on this market? It's 12, 13% down. So if I have zero investments in the US stock market, my first goal is to quickly enter with 50% money and see what happens. Now, what will happen if I let's say if I am if I have a budget of $1 million, right? So I mean, that is a portfolio that I'm creating. So I'm revealing the number also. What will happen for me is that see I invested like 500k. Okay? The market falls by another 20%. Now from the top, how much has the market corrected? This was minus 12 and this is another minus 20. So the stock market has corrected by roughly 33%. And I am at a 20% loss. So compared to the benchmark where I am, am I performing better or worse? I am performing better. Right? So I how much by 13%. And if I have a holding period of five years and all that, this is when it helps. The only way I will lose this game is that if the stock market itself becomes a secular, secularly bearish. Now, if that happens, then there are like, you know, bunch of other things. This is the only way I will lose in this game. Everyone understands. Okay? Someone asked me. And gets to 2007 to 2014 phase. Very good question. Okay? Because I feel that that's exactly where we are now. Okay? So let's look at what happened in 2007 to 2014 phase. So let's look at nifty. Nifty 50. Okay? What would have been a great strategy to invest in 2007, 2008 phase? Okay? So this is where we are. This is that phase. Right? I will zoom a little bit. Right? Here we are. Okay? Now, if you are buying here, this was stupidity. Okay? It means that you made this entire rally or you are a FOMO investor. As long as this is not happening, you have avoided mistake number one. Everyone with me. Point of entry is correct. Okay? Second is that you bought the market 15, 20% cheaper. Right? So where did you theoretically start investing? You started investing? 10% cheap. Okay? Like here. This is where we are. This is where we can say so 17, 18% are we need to share? And here we invested. Okay? So for us, this is the bottom line. Okay? Now, if we are investing minus 17% here. Okay? Now, we are ahead of the market already 17%. Okay? Okay? Okay? Okay? Okay? Okay? Now, we are ahead of the market already 17%. Everyone understands? Okay? Now, what will happen is that if it falls more and if you have the money to invest, you can always go back to the equation that he was. My portfolio loss is 20%. But the market is 37% down. I am beating the market by a lot. Okay? If my portfolio is 40%, market is at 57%. Okay? I am beating the market by a lot. Okay? Did it recover? And that's part one. Okay? Part two is called as position building. Now, position building means that see after every fall, you invest or downward average more. Okay? So for example, right? I mean, if I have to give you an example, right right now on NASDAQ, right? QQQ. How am I investing? Right? So QQQM. Then I will tell you that. How much money am I put on the roughly here? Okay? So the market is down roughly 13%. Right? The market is down roughly 13%. My portfolio is down like minus 3%. Okay? Now, this is called a support. Okay? Now, this is not blind buying. Okay? You would have seen that I have marked these orange lines. Okay? Now, this is second support. This is third support. Now, if the index falls more, then I will top it up. I will bring more money into the market. Now the market then is let's say minus 20%. But I am at minus 1.5%. So I will keep on expanding this alpha. How to do it? I will talk separately. But I hope you got the point that how exactly I am trying to avoid like a sideways market. Okay? Now this, now just to plant out the regions, right? So for example, from current levels, right? There is, I will invest another bulk at minus 5.3. Okay? And then I will invest another bulk at another 4% fall from there. Okay? So I am topping up at all these points. Okay? So I am topping up. First major top up was here. Second major top up is here. Third major top up is here. Fourth major top up is here. Right? So I will at least leave room for this. Okay? Now, it might happen that I have a budget of 1 million dollars. I might only be able to do it 750K USD. And first of all, the market is running. Now, if the market is running, then I will adopt. Bull run strategy of investing, right? That how to invest in a bull run market. Okay? Here I am investing in a market with a viewpoint of bearish run. Everyone is understanding. Okay? Key takeaway. What is the key takeaway? Right? On Monday when the market opens, you should at least do your first bulk. Okay? Whatever is IP money you have, you should do it. How much of it? At least 60, 70% you should be fully invested in a market like India. Because India is a high inflation market, right? US is a high inflation market. It can have and 2007, it was a very bad road map. That's absolute worst case what we are imagining because that was a 66% fall. That was the first round of quantitative easing. So speaking from a macroeconomics, it's unlikely that the market is going to fall by 66, 70% ever again. Okay? Like at least for a substantial future. Okay? So that's the bottom line. Now natural question comes that actually why you're not investing 100% of your money right away. If you trust the market so much, see here's the problem, right? Because I'm trying to avoid sideways movement on the market, right? And here we need to somewhat ball eyeball, right? The long term returns on the market on a five year, seven year basis. Okay? So this is 2020 pre-COVID. If I look at the market run up on pre-COVID basis, the market has run up 127, 125.78%. So on a long term basis, will I call NASDAQ overvalued or undervalued right now? I will still call it overvalued because typically NASDAQ should not give more than 90%. It is still somewhat 30% overvalued. So what I am now, do I expect like another 30% fall like this? No. What is going to happen is that it is going to go like this maybe, right? Something like this. Okay? So this is the region in which I want to invest majority of my money. Money is understanding. Okay? Market will not fall like this. This will only happen when QT happens, right? When the money is withdrawn from the system like crazy and there is negativity in the world. This government will not let it happen. Okay? What is, however, going to happen is that see, interest rate cut delays will happen that you know what we are going to cut interest rate six months down the line. So that's negative news for the market. Okay? As a result, the market will just trade in this region. Okay? What is it that I should do as a sensible investor and how will I make a very good alpha? If I'm trading this channel, this is called as channel trading strategy. This is what I am anticipating. This is my viewpoint on the market. If the market was undervalued, for example, this this region, right? Is undervalued, I would say. Why? Because see, for example, if you consider, let's say 2019, okay? To this point, 2022. Okay? So this is roughly like a 12% CAGR, which is not crazy. Okay? You understood how I got 12%. So 2020 to 2022. I'm looking at this, this part, okay? 22 or 23%. Okay? So this is 12% CAGR over two years. Here I'm looking at what? I'm looking at 123 over a period of five years. So this is more than 20% CAGR. Okay? On an average, now here you need to know the average numbers. Now what is a good rate of growth at what rate does the US economy grows? 4%, maybe like 4%, right? Okay? Nasdaq is tech. So maybe tech will grow at 10, 12%. Right? Why? Because Amazon type of companies will grow at 10, 12%. Okay? So 10, 12% is, let's monopoly, add one more point. So 13% up Malo. Now this is the base rate that I'm willing to pay. Okay? So this is what I'm eyeballing. You understand? Okay? And this is how I avoid sideways movement. So am I bearish on US stock market? Yes. Because I want US stock market to fall more. Okay? Because for me, I need to have that good time of entry and I really hope that it falls a lot. Okay? So I hope it crushes by 80% right? Then I'll make like crazy amount of money. But I can't do anything. I cannot make it fall. The only option I have is to wait sensibly. Okay? What about Indian markets? So let's do the same analysis. Okay? Nifty. Okay? Nifty. Okay? So here is Nifty. Let's do the same analysis. Right? Here we are. Okay? So in five years, right? We have grown 91%. Okay? Now, which means like what? 14%? 13%, 14%? 14%? C.H.R. Correct? C.H.R. We are not looking at the simple compounding. Compounding even compounding with A.G.R. So this will come out to be maybe like 13%, 14%. So one could say that this is fairly valued. Okay? So at this point is Indian market more undervalued or US market more undervalued? I would say Indian market. Okay? Nifty. So therefore I'm like almost fully invested in the Indian market. Not now because this green candle has formed. In fact, even check some of my post and already invested like 95% of my money came out with a post. Said it like point blank that I'm investing like 95% I'm invested. And I'm okay with it. Right? Now, so that's part one. Right? That's good point of entry. Now then comes question two that hey, what if something bad happens? Okay? How will you handle it? Okay? So that's where portfolio construction comes into the mix. Okay? That which we will talk subsequently. Right? But at every point in time, for example, right now, when I'm investing in the Indian market, I need to have a very clear plan of dealing with a 20% fall. Okay? What do I mean by 20% fall? Let's say that I'm fully invested in the Indian market. Okay? Let's say I had. Oh. I had invested. My entire portfolio hypothetically. I'm not revealing my like portfolio numbers and all that. So let's say hypothetically, I have invested 10 crores. Okay? Here. Okay? I'm fully invested. Now, the question I need to answer it because and why I've invested fully here because this is a good point of entry. Everyone understood the concept of good point of entry. Okay? Then comes question number two which I need to answer. What will I do if the market corrects by 20%? Now, this depends on your cash flow positions. Okay? Cash flow position means that market is going to be a market correct. Another 20% and we are here. Right? So in 2026 for example, here we are right in one year. The market corrects by another 20%. My 10CR becomes 8CR. But this is not the bad news. Right? Here, what has happened is that the for me to have 20% correction on this 10CR portfolio. What needs to happen? The nifty needs to fall to 18,500. Okay? Which means what? That one day when nifty goes from 18,500 to 26,000. Right? How much money will I make? A lot of money because you are getting right? That how this will be like a higher number. Right? So as long as I'm making new money, right? Over the next one to two years. It's a man. I'm fully invested. But I will be making more money in 2025. Right? 2026. Now, can I do I have a 20% hedge? For example, can I invest new to CR into the market over these two years in case the opportunity comes? Okay? That is the meaning of handling or like having the ability to handle a fall. Okay? If I'm leveraged, then I will do, then I will sell covered calls or something. Okay? So that's a separate strategy altogether. Right? But as a cash buyer, we need to always be cognizant. Of our cash flow assets. Right? So again, taking you back to this and how it relates beautifully to everything. See, having this bucket, bucket solid cash flow bucket. This is absolutely critical. Okay? So this is a very important bucket. For example, real estate. If you have, and if you have cash flow real estate every month, you are getting some money for sure. Right? Guaranteed. Or if you have a very stable job, that's again a cash flow asset. If you have a small business, that's a cash flow asset. If you have something else, right? I mean, let's say, wife is also earning, right? Our husband is also earning, right? Two partners, all that stuff. Right? So all that are like, if you are getting like after retirement benefits and all that, right? So in those are cash flows. Okay? So these cash flow positioning becomes really important. People who do not have new money coming in, they should never be fully invested in the market. Okay? Unless you are getting it at deeply undervalued zone. Now, what is the meaning of deeply undervalued zone? For example, compare the market on a three-year basis, compare the market on a five-year basis, compare the market on a ten-year basis. If on all of these three basis, if the market is giving you less than 12.5% EHR, we could say that it is undervalued. Add like a 15% margin on it. Okay? So for example, I've even had a competition with Ithon five-year basis that we are at 13, 14% EHR, we are fairly valued. Okay? I can afford to be fully invested. Why? Because my cash flow positions are such that I will be getting with a high degree of certainty another two-seer in the next two years. More than on the market, right? So if it falls, I'll invest another two. Okay? But if the situation is such that I'm retired, I don't have any other source of income. I don't have any real estate. I don't have a job. My only thing is stock market. That's my entire portfolio. How much should you be investing right now in the Indian market? I would say around 75%. Okay? So I hope you got the perspective that the answer of investing might be different for me and it might be different for you. Okay? But two things matter. Two three things. Number one is your point of entry, which is absolutely critical. Okay? Number two. Are you buying a market which is somewhat like to what extent will you invest? And this intern depends on your cash flow positions. Okay? Any questions guys on this so far? No. Okay? Awesome. Either I'm teaching really well or I'm teaching really bad. So like, when do I sell? So that's a separate class altogether guys. So don't worry about selling, right? Because this is the buying market now, right? So you have to understand it. Everyone understood why am I not buying like US stocks, like 100% why I'm not there. Right? So when I'm like maybe 25, 30% yet. Okay? How to draw these support lines also I will teach in very teach technical analysis. So I will do that. Okay? How to choose stock? But I'm going to stock right? So just simply buy index if you don't understand much. Okay? So you don't even need to buy an individual stock. Okay? So like, I mean, honestly, if you can just literally trade or invest sensibly in index, that's good enough money. Okay? You don't even need to pick any other asset. You literally pick like three, four assets. That's it. Okay? So you know how to like for example, people imagine that you know what, if you give me like a like a knife or machete and you know, summarize what I can, you know, sort of crush like Bruce Lee. Right? No, well, lots of more they're not. Even if someone gives you a knife, you can't do anything. It's about using your weapons. Well, okay? So that's more important. Right? So all these are different weapons. It has got nothing to do with like in how many access assets you have access to. Okay? More about for example, if you are choosing literally, Nasdaq, S&P 500, Nifty 50, BTC, Gold real estate. If these are like six, seven assets, that's it. You don't even need to go to a GFC bank. Okay? Then comes natural question. Why are you going to a GFC bank and all right? See, over time, what I've started to do is and I've started to appreciate the beauty of doing less. Okay? So in the sense that the less you do, the better it is. Right? I'm also understanding more of it. Everyone needs to go through a journey. And sometimes, you get opportunities. Right? For example, there is very good opportunity in private bank index. Okay? So it's good banks are undervalued. Even more than Nifty. So let me show that also. Okay? So for example, private bank. Why is this not working? Okay. Let's just say good. I have it. I think. Lifty. So. Yeah. So here, if you take a look, right? So again, let's do the same analysis. Okay? So for example, if you look at the last five years of private bank. Okay? So for example, here, if you do, this is 52. Now, if you divide it by five, now this is like eight, nine percent nine percent C. Okay? Now, this is way undervalued compared to even Nifty. Okay? So therefore, like I will give you a portfolio. I will show you. Right? So I literally have like banks insurance company, few hospitals. Nifty and private bank. That's it. That's all I have. 70 percent 80 percent of my stocks are right now in his. Is in finance. Okay? So that's that's where I am. Right? So I literally have like Nifty 50 and. So I have like a few financial stocks. That's it. There's nothing much else going on. Okay? I know I vote for you. So it's a very simple portfolio right now. Will it forever remain simple? No, it will get complicated depending on the market. Okay? So right now, I'm just trying to buy value. That's it. Okay? I hope you guys get it. Right? Now, how do you roughly estimate this? Okay? Again, let's do the same analysis. At what rate does India's economy grow? Six, six and a half. That's a baseline rate. Right? Six and a half one. Right? Now, if you add like good quality companies, top 50, 2% alpha, 3% alpha, 1 low, banks, financials will go faster. So 11% 12% CGR gas plus 1 low, right? So based on that, banks are undervalued. Okay? So definitely undervalued. Right? So that's how we will roughly get there. Now, you'll say, can you prove it mathematically? Bhai is science. Okay? So I'm not like a physicist. Okay? Investing is broad, broad math. Investing is not like, you know, I've proved everything. You know, prove. You're on the Excel. You know, Excel people do not make any money in the stock market. Otherwise, it's only PhD guys who would be investing in the stock market. Okay? Stock market. You know, you need to have like a heart in terms of investing. Another risk mitigation strategy. People who are good at business are very good at stock markets naturally. Right? So for example, because they understand how to mitigate risk. Running a business is not about, you know, doing like exceptional things. It's mostly about risk mitigation. Right? That you understand where there is cleaning and nailing. It's judgment. Right? So judgment is the most important skill in the world. Right? And honestly, like you can't eat a ball. For example, people look at like, you know, PV ratio, Nimb ratio, you know, it's going to be a merger. It will be a year. Bhai, ek bha, bha, right? Simplesy. Right? You ask your mom and dad and dadu, right? Then how, what's the most important decision they took in life? They'll say that marrying was the most important decision they took. Okay? And as I'm how much time did it take you to marry like mom or marry dadi? They'll say, I was there, right? Right? They're happy. Right? And shadi, right? So, usmeda am nindma sotshani, right? And buying like one private bank, if tea, you are like, you know, analyzing like 500 reports. It's stupidity, right? Some idiots say that, you know, okay, you have to read like last 10 year reports of a company. What will you find in that? Nothing. Okay? So that's the bottom line. Right? So that's what you need to think. Okay? And when it comes to buying like one stock or one something like this, motor motor analysis, only you can do. Okay? So, you cannot do. Okay? So that's hopefully it kind of gives you sense. Okay? So already. Okay? Nifty for an individual large cap stocks for more than then how come nifty 50 is attractive now individual large caps. So that has to do with something called as business analysis. Okay? So for example, if you're buying a manufacturing company. Or manufacturing large cap for example page industries. Now, I'm just using it as an example. I have not revisited the stock. Now, what is the manufacturing growth rate in India? 2.5. Okay? Right now. So structure, really it's worse for manufacturers. Now, why would you go and pick a large cap manufacturer? Right? If you know that they are struggling. You would pick high growth stocks. Let me put it another way. If you pick some of the smartest entrepreneurs in India, for example, just say Sachin Bansal, mini Bansal, who build Flipkart. What are the building next? Navi. Okay? What type of app is Navi finance? Okay? What is Isha Mane doing? Geo finance. Okay? What is Nathan Gamath, Nikhil Gamath doing finance? What is Vijay Shikar Sharma doing finance? Where money will be made finance? Karna Math. Okay? So that's all you need to do. Okay? So manufacturing, curling and making India, curling and no, I'll do it. I mean, there's no point. Okay? I end up doing that. Okay? So I hope everyone is kind of. When are we doing these modemota analysis? Okay? So I hope that this point is clear to everyone. Okay? So, so this this point is clear to everyone. Okay? All right. So now, if you don't do this modemota analysis, then what happens? Okay? So what will happen is that you will have massive form. Okay? If you don't buy it here, for example, here, technicals tell us to buy. Right? Technicals, how to do technical analysis that I will teach you like next week. Right? But Abhi Halvel Algaly, like I've just imagined that, okay, this is the type of charting that you can do. Right? How to do this? This I will tell you subsequently. I'll give you some homework to watch some of my videos. But this is called as support. So you buy at support. Okay? If you have to invest 100 rupees on nifty bank, at least 60 should be done right now. Okay? 60, 65. Now, if it falls here, should you buy more? Yes. Buy another 20%. If it falls here, buy another 20%. Done. Okay? If it falls more, nothing. Just wait. Okay? It's not as if that banks in India will go to zero. No. Like, I mean, you're buying an index. Okay? So it's not as if that index will go to zero, like reliance calm. Okay? So I hope that this point is clear. Right? So, entry point becomes really good. Okay? And money is made at the time of entry. Money is not made at the time of exit. Okay? What do you have? Once I have to time the exit. But most of your money will be made. If you are buying a good quality asset at a good price. Okay? But if you buy a really good asset, which is called as Bob strategy, buy at any price. That's a very bad strategy. Right? Marsalis one has proven that it's not it doesn't work. So don't buy at any price. It doesn't work. Right? So it's significantly over pay. Okay? For example, D-Mart. Okay? Now, we will do a separate case study on D-Mart. Right? But here. Right? Ah. No. Okay. So here we are. Right? D-Mart. Okay. Okay. But other e-mail. Right? So for example, this stock trades at 935 P. Now, what does a meaning of 935 P? I'll teach you P ratio tomorrow. Okay? But 935 P means, for example, Amazon. If you just go and ask. Now, Amazon P.E. Airways. So you will see that Amazon P. I think it's a little bit of the kind of Amazon P ratio. No, you don't. Oh, this is something again. This Amazon ink P.E. Airways. Okay. Now, this looks a little bit weird. I'll double check it. Okay. I don't think that this is correct. Okay. Hmm. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. That box. Nice running. Okay. Let me seek. Okay. Okay. Do it. This is another website. I'm just double checking it. It looks a little bit off. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Nice. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Let me take this off. Okay. Okay. Okay. That's it. Okay. Then. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Am I not able to do it? Share data. Okay, next time I'll just search for it, but I don't think that this is correct. But anyways, like come in, what was the example that I was trying to give? Yes, I was trying to give the example of FSN, right? So 935 PE is like very, very high. Okay. So I mean, even if you don't understand much about P, it is crazy amount. So two, tomorrow I'll explain in detail what is the meaning of P, some ratios, etc. But for the timing, right? I mean, if the company keeps on, if the company and growth rate, right? For example, if the company is growing at a very high growth rate, for example, you can find the growth rate here. So on a five year basis, the company has grown at a 27% growth rate of profits. Okay. Even for this, this is very high. Okay. So deem it, I'll tell you how I am. Right? So I have a new supermod. This is at 93 PE, right? If you look at peers, okay? So for example, you will see it trend 123, right? And trend, if you look at stock, right? So if you go here, you take a look at the stock price. So it was trading at 8000. It has gotten corrected by almost 40%. And yet its PE remains at 123. So what is happening on this stock? A PE correction is happening on a stock. Okay. Usually typically, like even good companies should like large caps. So this is a large cap company. And large cap companies, PE should not typically be more than like 5060. If you are paying more than 5060, it's typically like dangerous to pay. So sometimes companies undergo like massive price correction. Okay. Now I brought this in context of price correction on individual assets, individual stocks. Okay. And just say if we go to here, right? Now here, there is no PE risk per se. Okay. So for example, if you take a look at nifty bank index, now there is no like, I don't think I'll find the collective PE of nifty bank ETF. And ETF will find a code tech, nifty bank, take care. Yes, I can find. Okay. Because these assets are like recently constructed. So they don't have a PE, right? That's a problem, right? So anyways, but you can ballpark the PE. Okay. So for example, if you go to codec bank, okay, codec mind, the bank. And here you will find the P of codec mind, the bank. Okay. Now here is PE ratio. What you will notice is that this is available at a P of 21. Okay. Similarly, if you go to HDFC bank, right? Because these banks are the ones that are making the, the private bank index. This is available at 1920. At one point in time, this was available at 1617 PE. Okay. What I'm trying to tell you is that see the chances of here, there is a chance of PE expansion. Okay. On something like Dmart. Trent. Though the stock is corrected, okay. But it can correct further because the PE is contracting. Okay. So this is a very important point that we always look at price. Looking at prices useless. Okay. We should price should always be seen in context of its earning. And that is a meaning of PE ratio. For example, a stock that is corrected by 30, 40%. Can still correct more if it undergoes further PE correction. For example, Dmart. Trent. Okay. Now I'm not saying that it will definitely happen. But if we just try to understand that C boss, go take my name, the bank HDFC, bank gets available at 1819 P. Is there or KBE two? Take a right. So it's not as if that it will group become like public sector banks type. Okay. There is some efficiency there. Right. So therefore, like I mean, there is a higher chance that it will. Not how to determine the correct V tomorrow. We have a class. Okay. So they're there. I'll explain you some concepts around that. But Motamoda, what I'm trying to tell you is very simple that when it comes to like, you know, our job in the stock market is to find out a very good point of entry. And if you are doing it in index level, there is usually not a bad index. There are three types of indices. There is an undervalued index. For example, private bank index is undervalued. Okay. Second could be a fairly valued index. For example, or sorry, an overvalued index, just a small cap to 50. If you go and study small cap to 50, what you will notice is this. Right. So for example, let's go small cap to 50. Yeah. Now here, for example, between here to here, small cap gave 115% run up in a single year. Okay. Now if you judge it from 2020, right, it had given 250% run up. Okay. For context, 250% run up. I'm looking at it till here because this was a selling point. Okay. Now, 260% run up. Now typically, how much would a small cap index give in a year around 20, 21%. So in five, where it should give, given you maybe like 120%, but it was sitting at 260%. So was it a cell? Yes. Now, how would you quickly like do motor, motor, math and figure out? Is it undervalued or not? So you look at it here, right? So right now it is at 200% in five years. Okay. How much would it typically be? Maybe like 140, 150%. So is it overvalued still? Yes. So I'll not buy it. Okay. So right now, I'll not buy it. Okay. So when will I buy it? Maybe like after maybe two years, it goes sideways or whatever, then I will add it. Okay. So here, chances of a sideways correction is very high. Right. Still, it might not correct in price, but it might correct in time. Everyone is understanding the concept of time correction. Okay. So time correction means that for example, here, right. It might not happen that it may be it falls still here and then it consolidates in this range. Okay. And when you do this analysis that you start comparing this index from here to this point, then it might make sense. Okay. Boss. Okay. Fine. Right. Almost like this is 2028. Right. And it is at a CAGR of 20% now. Is it a good time to enter here? Yes. Okay. If you enter here, you will make money. But if you enter here, you might not make money. If you enter here, you will make money. If you enter here, you might make money. So then it's not as if that you don't invest in this index. But you invest on this index with the goal of trading. Okay. Swing trading means that by low sell. Okay. Everyone is getting swing trading. We do on assets that will go sideways. Okay. Just say what do you all private banks? Right. I don't think that there is going to be a sideways correction much on it. It's at a swing trading or at an investible stage. So similarly, you will have different different assets, which are in these different zones. And third type of index comes at an comes where you can say that I don't know index. Okay. So for example, it index. I don't know what the future prospects of it in India is. And it is completely okay to say I don't know because when you don't know, you'll not invest. Okay. And when you don't invest, you don't give a shit about that. Right. So that's the bottom line. Now, can I am I like some kind of Yankee who can tell you what exactly is going to be the future of it in India? No, I don't know. My estimate is that you know what things look bad. Maybe like I mean the competitive advantage for Indian IT was that, you know, it used to hire cheap manpower and there used to be human labor advantage. But can I be sure that you know, something like let's say, Info says TCS and all that it will continue to trade at its baseline P. For example, if I show you baseline P of something like TCS. Okay. Now, what is a baseline P here? Now the baseline P is this dotted line that you see, right? It was around like maybe this is the last, what do you think 2728? This is a baseline P. And in context of its earning, it is still a little bit high. Right. So at most, you can call it like fairly valued assessment, which cause them near right. I mean, and it what might happen is that if the growth rate of the entire IT sector in India goes down, then this baseline P itself will come down. Okay. Instead of having like a baseline P of 25, it might become 15 who knows why because it might be a slow growth industry. Okay. Very similar to how, for example, there is always like after every 20 years, top companies, John, at one point in time, Ford Motors was one of the most valuable companies in the world. Then it was replaced by tech. Okay. Within tech, right? I mean, there were like companies like Dell, Adobe and all that. They got replaced by like M7s now. Okay. Netflix, what not there in the M7 Tesla was not there in M7 before 2019. Then they became like top M7 companies in the US in India. That might happen that IT companies are like top companies in India right now, top 1015 companies. Will it forever remain? I don't know if the fundamentally things change that might not happen. Okay. So I'm just giving you a flavor of how to analyze all these things. Right. It's not as if that you require a PhD to study these points. Tomorrow we'll delve deeper into PE ratios, different types of ratios, just quickly summarizing whatever we studied today. Right. From a macro economics point of view, right? That see in a bull market. Sorry. In a bull market, there is going to be bull market happens because there is more liquidity in the system. Right now, if we step back and see will the liquidity increase in the world. On a long term basis, the short answer is yes. Right. Your up is increasing liquidity. China is increasing liquidity. US keeps on increasing liquidity. India too will increase liquidity. As a result, there will be a price up the position. Therefore, we should invest in stocks. Okay. Now, should we invest in every single thing that is out there? No. For example, if we study small cap index, it still looks overvalued. Right. If we study companies like Trent, D-Mart, there is still a very high chance of PE correction. If we study some index, which are uncertain index, for example, IT. Now, this is an opinion. I don't know. I'm myself telling you. I don't know. My British that it will correct. Right. Now, I can be off. When it comes to banks, they are at somewhat fair value. If you look at or undervalued rather, if we look at nifty broad, it is somewhat fairly valued. If we look at NASDAQ, it is somewhat overvalued. So the point is that at any given point in time, this is, you will always have investment options. It's not as if that six months down the line. It will remain the same. It might happen that six months down the line, Indian market will become overvalued. US market will become undervalued or unlisted will become undervalued. Something of this sort. So the more access to investment, you're never you have easier life, your life becomes. This is the central key takeaway that I will give because generally, you will make money because asset prices will appreciate with time. The only thing is that as long as your entry point on different assets is good, you will make money. For example, many people in Dubai right now are thinking that was the way real estate market is like hitting the top. Okay. So I'll wait and then I'll buy is that the right decision, wrong decision. I'll not comment because that's a conversation in itself. But this is like a viewpoint. Right. So what you're trying to do is that you're trying to intelligently tying the market. You need to do that on stocks also at least not on the entire stock market, but at least on certain assets. Every one with me, okay, enjoy the class today. Cool. Awesome. So this is where we'll close this. I'll take some questions right from the chat. I'll start first and then we will take some questions from the call also. I'll start with the washish question. Major private banks are nearing their all time high. That's still a good entry point, but all time high on what basis? There's a five year time correction that has happened. Right. So for example, if I show you the data, it is like you said like a codec, right? So codec if you take a look. So here is codec, right? Here is price, right? Is it all time high? Yes. But all time high was here also almost right? So 1960 in 2020 here, it is 2000, right? So hardly anything has changed and five years price. Okay. So this is a five year time correction that has happened. Interestingly, right? I mean, for example, I'm just trying to check at what PE it used to trade right here. And tomorrow, I'll explain you the concept of P. So you'll get more. Okay. What is the meaning of P? So for example, if you go here, the P of codec, mind Ramak was 44. Okay. Right now it is available at a P of 21, okay? Which means that just through P expansion, if it goes back to its previous P. It will double in value. Okay. So what is a fair price of P to mind Ramak? We don't know, right? But it is definitely undervalued. Yeah. Okay. IT Farmer is export having said this. USD growth will benefit in terms of repeat appreciation. We only benefit in terms of repeat appreciation. If we are able to export well, if you are not able to export well, then it's useless. Okay. Now what is the meaning of exporting well? It means that we have the capability of creating high quality products in context of the price. For example, if we can't even manufacture holy ki pitch curry and we end up buying Chinese holy ki pitch curry, then what good manufacturing are we doing to be honest, right? So it makes no sense, right? So there are structural issues in manufacturing. There is a reason why we have like 2, 3% manufacturing growth rate. And this is not just me saying a lot of economists have also said the same thing. And there are structural issues in manufacturing, right? And if you speak with like small business owners in India who are into manufacturing, you yourself will be able to understand their pain. Why India is a very difficult market to manufacture? Because cost of power is very expensive. Almost every manufacturing unit requires our land is very expensive because you require land. Labor is very expensive. And you put like gift subsidy, right? Or if you give like you know 70, 80% percent, like 60% of our population free food grain and all that, it kills the incentive for many to work, right? Try finding labor, right? For like I wrote a tweet also on this topic. That if you are in states like Goa, etc., try finding labor, right? For gardening, garbage collection, etc. You'll have a nightmare, right? I mean, it's very complicated to find labor. They don't want to work, right? I mean, that's the problem, okay? Okay. What are the signs of a market fall overvaluation? That's like literally number one reason why market will fall, okay? NSC unless literature should be by I will buy, okay? So I'll try to separate note. Will you cover more on entry point? Yes, I'll cover. BSE is good. Please wait for a note, okay? Why SIPs don't work? Are you an example with number C? I don't get the logic of SIP, right? I mean, basically you should buy something because it is a good investment, okay? Every time you are money, for example, it's like saying that every month you should buy a shirt. Why? Okay? If the shirt is on a discount, if you need a shirt, if it is solving some goal for you, then you should do it, okay? But randomly buying like, for the heck of it does not make sense, okay? Buying at whatever levels is a bad strategy, okay? So like maybe I'll try to cover it with an example, right? But just generally, right? And see if you don't know anything, then it's fine, just, you know, invest. But a better approach would be to step up or step down SIP. For example, right now the market is 10% down. So do a step up SIP, invest more. If the market is at an all time high and you are seeing that it is somewhat in the overvalued category, wait for two, three ones, don't do SIP. So that is called a step down SIP, right? And that's logical, right? Consumer visa is good, not a problem, right? 50K, nine, what should you advise people like me? I'm 26, making about 50, see, for at 26, 50K is not a bad salary to be honest, right? Work on skills, right? I mean, when you're young, you have a lot of time. The more skills you have, the more money making opportunities you have in life, right? So focusing on skills is very important. Investing and broad investing, investing it through you'll not get rich. Investing is a great way of protecting wealth. Investing is not a way to sort of make millions, billions and all that stuff. You require sweat, capital, right? So you have to work hard, you have to have skills and then only you can grow, right? From that, but yes, there is a significant disadvantage of not investing your money, right? I mean, if you have like 100 crores and if you invest it poorly, you can lose generational wealth in a matter of years. Is there a good exit point for booking guests? So I will tell you, talk, there is a specific class on exiting stocks, okay? Good entry point for something like BTC. BTC is a volatile asset. So instead of doing like four SIPs or like four bucks, try to do like six, seven bucks in a year, okay? So you invest less amount in it. So that will averages out volatility. Chinnai better, I have no idea. Okay? So he shared few index to invest both in India and yours, okay? I encourage one of you and I said, yeah, that's a good time to buy. You don't ask me like individual stocks, okay? So the objective of this class is to help you analyze stocks. You yourself will be able to do it. So please go through the course, okay? Where are we in the market? Okay. Yes, there will be a checklist. I'll share it, okay? We have a separate class at US. Would we be going into tools? I'm already explaining you tools, right? Right in front of you, right? So you should be able to see it, right? So for example, today we learned a little bit of public city. We learned a little bit of trading view. I'll teach tomorrow, okay? So we'll proceed from there. For US, are you investing in M7? No, like not all M7. Tesla, I don't buy Netflix. I want to buy, but it is pollution look a little bit expensive. Amazon, Microsoft are fine. I'm buying. What else? Apple, I'm not buying. Google, I'm not buying. Met I'm not buying as of now. Buy no discussion. We will discuss subsequently. Okay. Ah, thank you. So the market goes up in both, what are the point of these concepts? I just told you because you will go sideways. For example, market will go long term in QT also, right? But that does not mean that you go and buy small cap index now. By that logic, you should invest your money in the fastest growth possible asset. But now the problem is that the market goes sideways. Okay. So how do you deal with that? So therefore, you need to know that, right? Realize schemes are arbitrary review dream folks. I'll use all these examples. What do you have? You are a semiconductor. I'm bullish on semiconductor. It will, right? I mean, it's a fast growth industry. The company called doing the run regulated change. Okay. All right. If you already invested in overvalued stocks like NASDAQ, what should be the current strategy? NASDAQ is not a stock. It's an index. If you have already invested at high levels, then the idea is to at least have like 30% 40% cash age. Okay. So that in case there is a correction, you know that okay, you're prepared for a 20% fall. That's the idea. Okay. Swiggy is good. Swiggy, there is no problem. You also tell me like, I mean, you know, five really strong startups and in-lands, Swiggy will feature into that. That's a huge market. They are expanding everywhere like Zomatos. So Zomatos, Swiggy, both are very good companies, right? They have massive growth prospects. Screener, Guru focuses a good website. There is called as Zack's.com. There is another website. You can check that. There is something called as BY charts. You can check that. If you already have a house, then you don't need to buy another real estate. Unless you're portfolio grows to a particular scale. Okay. No, so I said that the chances of if the P of a stock is already good, then the chances of it expanding is higher. Okay. For example, Deemart is already at a high P. Now, if it is unable to maintain its growth rate, it will fall. The P will correct. And as a result, despite companies posting very good results, the stock will still fall. But on the flip side, go tech mind the Ravank, even if it grows at a 10-15% growth rate, which is very doable because its P is low. It's a good stock from an investing point of view. It is very important to technical analysis because markets have become very volatile. Okay. I was not a proponent of technical analysis. Now, I do not mean that up the screen, you know, I'll get better. Right? I mean, you're not becoming a date reader. But figuring out your point of entry and point of exit, even for investors is very important. Right? So you cannot discount technical analysis. I'll teach technical analysis more from a point of entry and point of exit. NVIDIA is very good. Okay. What is your view point on JP power? All run-up has happened. I've already made like very good money. So, okay. So like 250% run-up has happened. What if your portfolio is down? What should be the strategy? Please sell all your stocks, rebuild it from scratch. Okay. So if you're down 45%, it means that you know, no, no, any investing. Okay. So I'm being blunt with you. Okay. So like just learn, unlearn everything that you've learned about investing so far and just build it right from scratch. Okay. Entry point of gold bees. See, gold according to me has run-up. I will not touch it. As of now, it is already too bullish. Okay. So this is called a sentiment analysis. Sentiment on gold is at an all time high. And if sentiment is all time high on something, you can be rest assured. That you're not going to make asymmetric returns on a long-term basis. So always think long-term. So therefore, I'm not buying much gold. Okay. So yeah. Will you be covering the basis on especially if you are living in Dubai? Not on this course. This was an India specific course. I'm doing a Dubai workshop. Right. So I mean, in case you guys want to come to Dubai, they're I'll cover like international investing more. Okay. Okay. In the market downturn, what is better investing in index or in it doesn't matter. Wherever the operation it is. For example, just a private bank ETF may. Opportunities there. If you look at semiconductor index, opportunities there. If you look at even Bitcoin opportunities there, it is corrected by like 35% from the top. Right. So it really depends. I mean, for example, if the market is in a very clear trend up trend, for example, now then you have to become like even more stock specific. Right. Right. You can go like index. If I liquidate or a more courage, large cap, PMS, how would you advise to invest it? Okay. See, I mean, please wait for the classes to get over. You will have more clarity. Right. Today, we covered the macro, right, which is very important because macros move the needle. Right. I mean, for example, if you're not investing in a time when there is very clear chance of more liquidity into the market, that's bad. Okay. So you lose a lot of money or potential returns. Similarly, if you know that liquidity tightening will happen. And if you don't cut your positions, that's again, okay. So please wait. You'll have more idea. Okay. I'm a fan ETF. There are enemies. I had. No, no, no, no, no. I'm a fan ETF. So yes and no. Please wait. Okay. So you'll have more idea. How and where can I buy semiconductor index in India? You can use vested in case you guys haven't opened your account. Right. I'll ask my team to post it on the WhatsApp group that we have created. If you use that because I'm an angel investor invested, you'll get some discounts. Okay. So that I will talk because you guys are my students. So there will be special benefits. Okay. Can you put more light to what fundamental factors look for? Yeah. So fundamental analysis we have a separate last. Today was macro economics. Okay. How to get details of liquidity is going down or up inflation. So for example, if inflation is completely controlled, most likely they are going to push growth and if the growth is slowing down. So you just simply have to go through cycles. So tomorrow I'll explain this concept. Okay. Energy stocks are very good. I don't know about energy stocks in India. Even I am searching. I'm learning more about this industry. So I'll have more useful answer for you after a month. But how to find benchmark numbers for each asset class for deciding under value like when you are. So here, it's generally. Right. So if you look at the last 20 years, so we are using that as a baseline. So long term is a good baseline. Right. So typically speaking, the last 20 or mid cap returns would be around 20 for large and large cap it will be 12 to 13. I don't think gold will correct, but it will go in a time correction. So it is already at like highest ever sentiment. So to say, a one the feeds, but large oldings, project industries guys, I don't know what every stock. Like I cannot comment. Can any of us. I'm not right now guys. I mean, if you are in the right then only I can consult right. So technically, I cannot Indian residents. So that's an issue. Yeah. If I want to start investing in the US, yes, it's a good time. You can start because it's not as if that you know, when the nifty is sorry, Nasdaq is down like 30, 40 percent only then you will. It's a little bit of an investor to do. So that you have some skin in the game, right? You can at least track. It's okay to lose like 10, 15 percent of your portfolio temporarily because that way you will be in the game. Your view technical analysis, I'll teach you separately. So don't worry. Okay. Which private bank ETF any private bank ETF? It doesn't matter. The idea is to buy private bank. Short term trading. I don't know. So I don't teach. Okay. I teach swing trading. Regular to direct should means that the whole amount and check. Many so invest the whole amount. It's just cut it one from this and you're moving to this and right. Maybe there will be a three four day delay. Whatever happens that's separate on a large scale. It doesn't matter. Okay. Should we have one lack to be for trading and investing in what context? Right. So I mean, like you should invest whatever spare money. Which broker invest in US market from the buy. IBKR is good. Your banks are good. So if you're doing like bank based apps, those are fine. You use why why I was good. It's all these are good. What all business newspapers do you read nothing? Okay. I don't read business newspapers or any newspaper. Okay. So it's useless. Okay. Basically, you have to do second order analysis, which I'll teach you. What do you think of speculative stocks like Adani, not very highly. You already know that right? So like that's how to say. What do you think about DCA as a start? That's dollar cost app averaging that's SIP. Okay. The problem with SIP is that see it's you don't know when to exit. Where will you exit and if you're never exiting, then you are just eventually it's like you will take the hits someday. It may be like 20 years on the line. I don't know. So point is that see when the market is clearly overvalued sell some when the market is clearly undervalued bulk. Why? Okay. That's when you will make real money. Yes. So what's up group is already active. So I think people have joined it also. So please check your emails. Please drop us our email in case you haven't been added. We have not posted anything yet. So we'll start posting it from Monday to use it. Right. So that's when we'll make it active and it will be active for one year. Okay. So all the moves that I'm making in the market. I'll let you. Okay. Innovation growth in AI India not at all. Right. Is that an area of growth USNFR? Do you see us? I think not at all. Right. I'm being blunt with you. Right. So I don't think and anyone working in AI will confirm that right. We are far. We are done. Right. No one wants to build any cryptos and all that in India anymore. Right. We have three cryptos. The action is way too much right. Why would you build? Yeah. Will you sell gold if it may go up in time? No. See, I mean gold is not like a growth asset anymore for me. Right. I mean, because the narrative has been so positive on gold now that, you know, it's like yeah, lot of run up has happened. Right. And in a very short span of time. So now the chances of side risk correction is way high. Gold does not correct too much in value, which is a good news. So it's not as if that you will lose your principle if you're investing. But it could happen that you know over the next 10 years basis, it will only give like maybe three, four percent five percent run up something like this on CGR basis. Handling taxation while buying it, it's very easy to file taxes on your equity. Just download it from your broker's account. Whichever app you're using and they give you a tax PNL. So you just have to show it to your CEO. Okay. Bank charges over the. They'll get back. They give lower. Okay, how do you nothing one? It's like prize of corruption. This is nothing that can be done. Okay. So when you say you are invested 75% video positive remaining FDs. Okay. So for the timing. SIP compounding concept actually works. Okay. SIP compounding makes one crore into 10 crore. But inflation compounding makes the value of that 10 crore back to 1.5 crore. Okay. So effectively you make like 50 likes. Because that's how you need to look at it. Okay. Swing credit. Yes, you will learn. Basics. Okay. So if you invest in US dollar. Do we get the same? In a bit. From other Middle East countries except UAE. I think so. You should be getting it. That will also be yes. Yes. That's wisdom. Community also you will be added to WhatsApp group. So you can either access like wisdom. Ach group on website. Right. Or WhatsApp both are fine. I see I see a long barred. I already have it in my portfolio. I bought it early so I don't know. I have not realized it. Is it the right time to buy what? Okay. So like for example, NASDAQ bulk. I don't know. Okay. But Indian. Nifty bulk one can be done. Okay. HDFC and see what I've been doing. I think I might see I'm not against SIP right. SIP works for some kind of investors. I feel that you can do a better job than a SIP right. That's what I'm hinting towards. Okay. If you're not in the same method then continue SIP. It's not as if that you lose money or something. Currently 30% loss 50% position book that loss and reinvest. But I nearly says, okay. I could not understand the question fully. If you can speak maybe right. I'll let you speak. Emergency funds and FD or liquid funds see I park it in UAE FD because it's net positive for me. Right. I have that option. Therefore I'm able to do it. India may I used to park it in liquid debt fund. Right. So that's what I used to do. We keep buying and selling index equity in lesson one year. I won't say see it is there and you cannot change that right. But still think about it this way that if you're able to rotate capital twice. Then your profits could potentially become like 30% CGR. So you're paying profits on taxes or sorry you're paying taxes on profits right. If you're a UAE tax or it is a part of one UA menu. Right. So I mean they don't do all this like a TCS collector. You just do like that. So says like that. They don't so there is no such thing like this. Right. You can directly buy. P O V on automotive's automobile sector. I'm only buying two wheelers. That's it. Right. So two that is what was it hero motor and bajaj auto. So yeah. Users to invest FD by some years of Madhkar. Right. If you're investing in FD just buy a gold ticket FD and keep money safe. That's the entire idea. For example, the utility of an FD is for example, how much differential will you wait on your FD? If you invest like best deal in the market. Versus HDFC or blue chip company maybe one one and a half percent. Right. Now if you are there is no point in taking like principal risk on all this. Okay. It's not you're not investing in an FD for growth. You're investing in FD for liquidation that you can liquidate. For example, today market is 10 15% down. Whatever FD money you don't need for the next two three years, Dalfi, sure though. Right. That is a 10% add on which will definitely add on our three or four year basis. Very high probability. Which is a three percent alpha over the market. You're getting right to off-math. I'm telling you. Can we monitor whether the government is pursuing QE? See. You can for example, whatever decision US feds take other countries typically copy. Right. Yeah. So that's what I would say. So for that you have to read the read the fed minutes. Right. So they come out do a policy meeting every three months where they decide whether to increase like interest rate, decrease interest rate. So that is called as Fed meeting. So just go to public city and ask summarize. Can you summarize like Fed meeting for me. So that's for flexibility will do that job for you and you're done. Right. So you don't need to read any articles and all that. Okay. I don't read anything. Now I only read for a flexibility. That's it. Okay. So are you. As you are not able to manage portfolio for Indian as a chance. Can you recommend some good people for international investing? No. Okay. Then it becomes my responsibility. If they will be lost for you, then it's a problem. Okay. Sensible and 50 yes. It is sensible. Do like maybe 60% 65%. Definitely. Right. I mean 70% up. Invest. I mean at the stage. There is no harm. Okay. So you will make money. Awesome. Paul. Basil. Hi action. I just want. Sorry. Paul. You want to talk? I can't hear you. Hello. Can you hear me? I can't hear you also. There are a problem. I'm not sure. One minute. Hello. You are building. You said you are done 20 30%. I think rest of the money isn't cash or have the yes correct. Right. So we can. You know, I. I cannot. We can hear you. Okay. One minute. Okay. All right. Now I can. I should be able to hear. Basil. And then Paul. Yes. Akshad. Is there any chance of. Can you hear me? Can you hear me? Okay. Let's try once. Can you hear me? Yeah. Is there any chance of market correction? Yes. Okay. Is there any chance of market correction? Yes. Is there any chance of market correction? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.core practical bettaweet loss and tax increase of. Market correction post April second. This this year. Post tariff implemented by. Like, because of tariff. No. That is already being factored into it. That concept is called as efficient market hypothesis. A. Thump has already announced that he's going to. And you know, sort of put tariffs. that has been factored that news has factored into the market. thats the market. So market will not fall because of this news, okay. discussion. I've already shown you what I'm going to teach tomorrow right in the morning class. So just look at it once tomorrow most specifically like I mean I'll talk about like you know the fundamental analysis right and I'll talk about like the ratios all that stuff so that will be the agenda for tomorrow right and mostly like how do stocks move and why do stocks move right so that's the idea tomorrow okay any specific Southeast Asia stop market you are studying Malaysia seems good but I don't I have not made any indispensable right same. So Ganya okay Paul yes Paul and Suga. Thanks. Good evening. I'm a audible. Yeah yeah yeah actually how I have understood this SAP versus capital rotation is that say for example I'm a audible. Yeah yeah yeah yeah if you're running SAP periodically for particularly for a long period of time getting a return over casual for 12% in an index fund it is way more better than rotating the capital in the stock particularly for any particular stock if a meta run up around 100% or 50% we can take money and we can rotate that money into another rally another set of sector rally like that you are saying right. I understand like this from your viewpoint that you are saying this thing against SAP. No so SIP problem is two problems right one is that you don't know when to exit because you are SIP and which simply means that you are buying at whatever levels and never exiting okay that's problem one problem to is that you are buying even when the market is over valued or clearly over valued okay so that's the issue with SIP and therefore your returns will be lower that's the headache okay but if you still want to SIP then I would encourage you to SIP only in benchmarks don't do anything fancy right for example SIP in 50 50 SIP in small cap to 50 third problem in SIP that's the with with age your income grows okay so like wealth protection becomes like a challenge right now Indian markets you need to understand that our market started to get mature after 2000 here 2000 the SIP data is only for the last 20 years sensible data okay now why did India grow in the last 20 years because IT revolution was big Indian workforce were very educated now if something happens to IT industry in India and if there's no secular rally and if there are bad economic steps for example just say India is the only country on earth which taxes foreign investors on equity investments no other country is doing that right foreign wealth they don't touch okay now if you are making these type of knee jerk moves it can really like dampen the spirits of investing in the Indian market for foreigners now all these problems are there right so I mean you know we can't discount it right I mean there might if there are genuine structural issues which you and I can't see today and if you continue to invest in Kushi Kutare I am going to go to Karta then you become like you know yeah then it's probably like you know not a very smart move that's what I had to say you were saying that SIP in the index fund or any EDF like that benchmark EDF like that it is baby yeah when it is not data tells us know that 85% of fund managers don't beat the benchmark yes whenever the 5% 10% fall we find that time we can bulk invest and sit and write okay that's it correct and about the capital rotation also particularly in stocks some run up is happened 100% 50% like that if we find it is overvalued and we can rotate that money into another sector early right is it is it is it is it the meaning of capital rotation and this would right yes also no so capital rotation does not work like you are I have made 50 percent run up therefore I'll rotate no it's nothing like that I mean for example if it is available at a support you buy if it is available at a resistance you sell how to figure this out I'll teach okay thank you so much thank you so Ganya yeah hi sir so my question is once you figure out you are at a good entry level and you want to do your first time a bulk investment right like right now Indian market or Nazda how do I identify how much percentage I can go on the first step it could be very different for Indian and Nazda right now itself right yes so this clarity you will get tomorrow right and we have like a we will teach like we'll learn a little bit more about portfolio building right so tomorrow I'll take you through the basics of portfolio building so that will give you more confidence okay but to cut the long story short so for example right now Naz Nifty is that a fairly valued state I would say so you can you should at least have 60 70 percent exposure to Nifty for example if you want to have 60 let's say out of like 100 units of wealth you have right you want to put like 60 units for growth then and out of that you want to put like 40 units of growth to Nifty then and out of that 40 units you should at least have like maybe around 25 units on Nifty by Monday okay so that's how I'll put it roughly yes Shika yeah hello yeah actually the MP teaching fundamental and technical analysis so would you be able to summarize what all parameters and kind of provide a framework through which you can run a stop to see whether that's one point and are there any AI tools where you can automate your trades or you can use it for analysis something you can't see a complexity can teach you like how to give you quality data that you can absorb that's it that's the utility of that's the utility of AI for us AI can be automated to run high frequency trades but you need to be closer to the terminal and all that stuff that's where another range of money is made either you can make money on absolute short term basis where you're doing microsite trading like Jane's street it is called as hft high frequency trading or you make money by thinking macro now you can't do this because this is very expensive trading setup this is a full time job so I'm teaching you this okay so yeah all right okay yeah they're there hey action so wanted to understand you you showed us today the lines right support lines that you drew on nifty 50 and other indexes how are you deciding on those support lines I actually I have seen this even other people talking about it but I never really understood how people deciding the fall support lines or the so this is called as technical analysis right now I'll teach you this we have a separate class on this but very quickly basically this is called as drawing of trend lines so on Monday to use you I'll send you homework where I have shown on YouTube videos how to draw this right so I will not explain this in the class but if you just watch those two three videos you'll be able to do it okay my skin question is I was an apple I was a software engineer an apple I was a apple employee and over there along with the RSUs we also got the ability to invest like from your salary some amount within apple at a discount level so I ended up accumulating a good amount of RSUs as well as the other apples stocks but I quit the company last year now I see that apple has gone down I don't actually in fact by not even touching anything it kind of grew a lot my portfolio grew a lot so I wanted to understand as to what should be anyone's next step should we just it like that because I have worked internally at Apple so somehow from their technical perspective I can understand where they are trying to grow okay I worked on store building services right so they they created store like they created not only just their retail stores but also they are trying to improve upon or actually expand channel partners stores right so also in US you have best by and AT&T where in those stores you will be able to see by Apple phones or Apple products so they are trying to have more of these channel partners stores especially in Singapore as well as in India they came to India last to last year when I was working in Hyderabad Bangalore and so not only are they trying to build these retail stores specifically retail stores which are Apple owned spaces but they are also trying to increase their number in the channel partners stores so like reliance or chrome or electronics you will find so that is one place that they are growing a lot then they own certain things like you know how you have cashify where you can sell your old old phones and get a discount in the newer phones Apple also has something very similar setup for that in there if you are going to buy from Apple.in they are trying to implement that and they are trying to improve upon that that was another my head interviewed it for so these are the two teams where I primarily primarily worked on and I found that okay apart from that technologically in terms of you know when you see from a from a very outside point of view people would say that okay there is not much change in the phones or in the iPads or in their like but they are technology that they are using let's say the airports that you use which connect directly which connects seamlessly with your phones they have a specific protocol for that they will not share that protocol with let's say Facebook or any other so Facebook if they have their draband glasses you know they will require that Bluetooth to connect but it's not seamless to your phone right but airports are something which are quite seamless so for that to connect you have a specific technology a specific protocol that only Apple owns so these are the technology improvements that they are doing or stuff like that is happening within the company from I'm totally speaking from technological aspect because I was a software engineer yeah so I'm saying that dear I asked they were to explain like I mean so it's not hurt fault I myself like because I want to invest more in Apple like so therefore I was asking for like investment thesis right so it's always good to hear like inside us viewpoints so therefore I think it's always like from till now I have been watching videos and you have been telling like Apple is going down but my gut feeling is like just keep investing in Apple the same thing goes for all the people who are in Google or Microsoft they are like we are not selling right now we're just going to keep investing especially the employees they don't want to sell for like a very long time okay got caught so there was no question guys I mean I asked they were to explain the investment thesis in Apple as per her understanding it's always good to hear like contrary viewpoints I'm not bullish on Apple to be honest like as of now like if I get it at a good price I'll do it so but yeah always good to sort of here my my viewpoint on like Apple is like you know in the US slash China now companies that can create exceptional products are going to win right so that's the idea right so for example b by d if you look at the quality of the electric vehicle they are moving ahead and zooming ahead past Tesla and when it comes to Western customers they don't mind paying like higher price as long as they are getting quality or best quality so the question becomes an apple if you actually go back and study apple the reason why it grew so much in market cap was because they were launching like flagship products almost every third fourth year right so since that is not happening that's problem one problem two is that a lot of other companies are getting into hardware space for example Google is getting into hardware you have metal getting into hardware right so yeah it's been hardware and all that so that's like you know or Amazon getting into hardware in a way right so they have Amazon basics so they can pretty much launch or whatever hardware they feel like eventually so the competition is also heating up right so that's that's how I would get to so but yeah I'm happy to change my thesis right I mean as more information comes in right Rahul Soneel please wait yeah yeah actually thanks for like giving the opportunity to ask you a question on technical terms frankly I'm not so so deep in deep knowledge about the stock or anything I have limited time of maybe like 12 years with respect to my age so I'm just trying to understand what would be the way where I may not be able to like be alpha or like get some high returns but at least with limited knowledge I would like to understand what would be the ways by which I can create a good amount of wealth maybe investing in India or abroad so that is what I'm looking for yeah so it's very simple right two three points number one by good quality assets right now what a good quality assets which typically grow faster than the economy number two by them at not overvalued price I'm not saying buy undervalued because no one knows what undervalued is okay but at least not buy overvalued right number three book profits when time comes so if you do these three things you will make very good money okay is it complicated to do and it does it require like 24 seven effort not at all right even if you're monitoring your portfolio once a week you should be able to do it okay and I will teach this on the course today was this class one right where we studied macro economics from tomorrow you'll dive into like portfolio building all that so you will have like fair enough idea because this overvalued and undervalued I heard a lot in lot many videos but frankly I haven't caught yet how do how to like understand whether this is undervalued or overvalued you know no one knows right and tomorrow I'll explain you the reason also for today for example I explained you why Nazdaq according to me slightly overvalued but nifty 50 is not right so hopefully that explanation kind of made sense right but point being that overvaluation undervaluation no one can really figure it out you can just broadly analyze it right that's the best you can do and as long as you're not investing like in broad as long as you're not investing in overvalued things you'll be fine right okay thanks a lot so Neil can you unmute yeah I actually if you remember we met at Bangalore I hope I love the book so I have two questions one I work at Google and I want to understand what your thought process about Google particularly with cloud being kind of in a fuzzy territory based on the results that they've published yes like what's your view as an outsider and perhaps you could talk about something that I'm all the same yeah man so see I mean I'm not worried about the cloud part of Google I'm worried about like the search engine space for Google right because that is the primary mover for Google I think they make approximately 65% of their revenues from search Google search that is fading fast so I don't know like I mean how much time would take them to rebuild that capacity over time so there is short term pain for Google that's how I think right so therefore I'm not buying it okay so as of now despite it getting a little bit discounted I am more comfortable buying like something like Amazon or Microsoft which will take or meta which will take market share away from Google even Netflix is going to take market share away from Google when it comes to add-based spend right Netflix is very good according to me it says that it does it's not getting discounted I'm desperately waiting for it to get discounted but it's a monopoly stock right I'm genuinely feel that it will stick right it's it's Netflix time in the next one two decades it has already established that brand and it is not going to come down right I mean there is no reason why it will come down there is no one coming after its core business problem with Google is that everyone is coming after its core business right yes oh yeah so now Google is also expanding for example with me more they are like you know trying to compete with Tesla or whatever right but like I mean it's just too big but it's too small a revenue stream for them now so not sure it looks like I would definitely not buy Google at a high price that's the point so from from that perspective I mean I I observed you've been using publicity quite a lot you've been talking about using publicity and I think that's been overall trend with a lot using Jennyi for their search I myself do it Gemini and or Charge GPT so I think that trend is astute that's that's going to happen soon or the start to impact in some way is what I understand super someone who is looking at moving to the buy particularly setting up a business in Dubai either as a free hunter or as a registered company whatever the licenses are would you be able to recommend somebody trusted that somebody could work with to do so so drop me a message I'll help you so we should I drop you a message on LinkedIn yeah LinkedIn you can if you don't hear a bad from me by like next week just remind me once okay so just write that you're my student right I'll help out not in sure thank you so much sheetal and munishaji yeah hello I have the same kind of question I first I do have some master car shares from his companies so they are reading you for this quarter and he already wasted some on some of the shares so definitely government has already got all the taxes but now after that after the highest point it got rick there's a quite a correction on master car shares so I need some advice like she'll be hold it or what's the man do we honest I have not studied master guard right so like I have no viewpoint on master guard as of now oh okay okay thank you but I'll study it yes munishaji yeah action first of all you know I have learned a lot from your courses I did enroll for the Jan course and I've again enrolled for the same course in March you know because they said that you know you would look at the current market you know conditions and even though I mean I've you know enrolled second time what I've learned you know today is you know completely different from what I learned in in Jan which is fantastic thank you thank you but I want to join your US stock course or your international stock course and you just mentioned that that you know I can't do that as an Indian citizen no no you can do that I cannot review your portfolios as an Indian citizen trade time and I cannot give you a licensed portfolio advice for Indian tax residents right so that was the point right so when is your international it's already it's already going on so just drop me a message I'll sort it out for you but if it's already going on then I mean you know then I'll ask my chance no no no so it's not like that so basically it's a year-long course basically I reveal I'm building a portfolio of one million US dollars right life in front of everyone and every month we meet review my portfolio right on US and that's primarily US based investing so it's a life course every month we meet it's more like a discussion module every month I update this is a course where you currently are that is more like a you know how to build a portfolio life okay okay all right so I can still enroll into that course once I get to wisdom hatch you know there'll be something there thank you people who don't know monisha ji is a very famous designer so like you can look her up right so no no no she's a very famous designer right so I looked at up a lot of people know that I have like zero sense of fashion as you can see I do leave there like one type of clothes just look her up she's like a celebrity right so not a child sorry okay thank you so much thank you yeah sure well yeah hi I'm at Nara and I live in Europe I actually want to enter in the real estate in India so how should be the distribution between loan and cash should it be like 50% cash 50% loan or what are the parameters to be sure so see I mean honestly it depends on the cash flow right so for example let's say like I'm in a great example to pick is UAE real estate Dubai real estate in Dubai it's not impossible to find deals right where you are making a cash flow for example you buy an apartment you rent it out at seven and a half percent yield I have done it right so I'm speaking from my example and the borrowing rate in Dubai for real estate is five and a half right five five and a half right so basically what is happening there in that equation is that it's a net positive cash flow deal for me because I'm borrowing at five and a half and I'm renting it at seven and a half so my rent offsets the EMI and it still puts money in my pocket okay but in India what ends up happening is that if you're buying like a typical township project your yield will be two percent rent and you're borrowing at nine so there is a minus seven percent outflow so the entire question should you cash finance it should you like you know how much loan should you take etc depends on this equation to begin with okay so the equation that I will suggest in India is that at least your cash flow on the property should be four percent if it is not giving you four percent five is four percent on a villa and five percent on an apartment if it is not giving you five percent on a apartment it's a bad deal if it is not giving you four percent on a villa it's a bad deal okay now why four percent for a villa because villas appreciate faster compared to apartments so therefore that underlying property appreciation is faster on villas so that's okay to take like one two percent hits but that's a general rule I will suggest but it depends on a lot of things but hopefully it gives you an idea yes yeah thank you okay no so unfortunately I'm not able to cover like real estate guys recently purchase a cyber security 32 will this benefit the Google stocks I think Google in cider will tell us right I don't know like so I'll wheel here and hear it from him the next time right okay awesome guys thank you so much okay I hope you enjoyed the session today tomorrow we'll meet again hopefully this day was not taxing right you learned something new that was the idea Sandra you have a question yeah yeah actually the we have asked this on the chat actually so earlier you mentioned about forming a real estate management company and then trying to manage all of your different real estate property through that maybe a quick just that from you so Hotha yeah right in you can form like a real estate company at two levels one is that you become a real estate company and you develop real estate which from a tax efficiency point of you is really bad in India because the operating income tax on LLP for real estate is 34% right it is treated as an operating income very very high right but if you're considering starting a real estate management company now you can just pretty much for example let's say that your five houses okay and if you're registering a company which manages those five houses you register it as an LLC right and or like whatever like private limited or whatever right and then you are managing your providing staff and running it as like you know guest houses or whatever you show it like that so it typically can help you save offset some rent okay that's the idea please consult us here they will tell you more hacks I'm abroad okay so your attack situation will be very different from mine okay so you cannot just generally apply this every day right so yeah thank you okay okay all right guys so I'll see you tomorrow right at 12 right so if you're not received an invite please double check your email in the spam folder etc right you should be able to get it and yeah cool so let's meet tomorrow and we'll pick it up from that thanks so much bye