Transcript for: Live Session VIII - US Stock investing (Part 2) 
Transcription Date: 2025-04-01 23:35:56.734678
==================================================

 Okay guys, alright, so I'm back. You have a minute to go. What is the best way to accumulate gold? Physical or digital? Right? See, you talk to your local jeweler, you buy it at 10 gram gold. You can also buy certified gold, but the price is a little bit higher. Right? Is it worth it? See, I mean, if the idea is to just buy and hold, then it's fine. It's not like really like, see, it's a rainy day fund. So that's what I would say. So just treat it that way. It's not a TTF, it does not make any sense. Gold TTF for 11th benchmark to compare is an FT50, not gold. Okay, so with my sound weird, because both is government money at the end of the day. Yes, Hush. Wait, wait, yeah. Hush, uh, hi. You've been, hello. Yes, yes. Yeah, I've been talking about building real estate portfolio as well. And I have been sort of doing that with apartments at the moment. One in Jaipur and one in Mumbai, but in the past few years, what I realized is that all my apartments have just paid the usual, you know, 10 to 15% of down payment and rest is all loaned. And two things which I feel is that most of the time the amount to be paid back takes a large chunk of what you feel like, you know, you can invest in some other asset like equal to reason, you know, it can be good to run up. So I'm always confused what should be done. That's because you did not buy a high quality property. Okay, so that's the problem. So if a property is not generating 4% yield to begin with, it's not a viable asset. So if you buy wrong, then no one can help. So that's a simple baseline and that's what I would say. Okay, Sandeep, just write to me separately. I'll connect you with a relevant person on this not an issue. I feel right and especially like in terms of land buying, right? I feel Malaysia is really good. So if you're looking to buy land and in a foreign land, in a foreign country, Malaysia allows it. I'm studying more. There was someone from Malaysia who was on this class. I would love to get in touch, right? And I would, I'm also trying to build more understanding. I'll buy something next in Malaysia as well. Okay, so it's one of the very few countries that allows foreigners to own land, which is absolutely amazing. Taking loan and buying real estate makes sense. Absolutely yes. It depends on what type of property you're buying just to tell you the math. I'm making net 7.5% yield on the Dubai property that I own. If I were to take a loan against it, I would have to pay a 5%. So basically I can finance 80% of my property for free. Did you get it? I can make money out of it. So like 2.5% yield, right? So, usually find the leader of college and so on, much insiders of the MZR and quite an eliminate point. Okay, that's good. Okay, guys. So now comes the question of international investing, right? I will try to be quick and give you like an introduction, a sensible introduction on this topic where you can start, at least start your investing journey. Okay. First and foremost, tell you the concept of US, denominate, denominated returns. Okay. So for example, if you are the first key concept that you need to know is that you go here, right? And you look at nifty 50. Okay. So you go here and you type nifty 50 index. Close this. Right. He goes this. Right. You click on this tab and you compare it to you queue, queue, which is NASA DAC. Okay. So the moment you click this, your eyes will go wide open. Okay. So why? Because QQ has given 181.72% return and nifty has given 113% return. Okay. In the last six, seven years. Okay. Now, let's go back. Okay. So for example, if we look at any time frame, any time frame, right? So from this time to this time, you will consistently see that this blue chart, a purple chart is above this. Okay. The point I'm trying to tell you is that if we try to uncover this reason that, okay, why is NASA DAC, which is a US based index, is growing so fast. It's very simple. Okay. And this return is in US dollar returns. And this return is in INR terms. They haven't adjusted for that parity also. So if you adjusted for that, that in our five year period, INR has fallen by at least 4% per year or five years, 20%. So you add another 20% here. Okay. So this is the adjusted comparable return between NASDAQ and INR. I'm sorry, NASDAQ and nifty 50. Okay. Now, two questions come up that, okay, one you spoke about INR falling. Why do I bother? Because I am in India. Number two is, why is it that NASDAQ is giving so much returns? Well, it's very simple. And it's a long term structural bit. Okay. 3,000, 2000 was a pivotal year. Okay. Before 2000, the business world used to be on a factory model. Okay. There was no very less internet based application or consumer applications based on internet. We used to, everything used to be factory driven. This was like, you know, intelligent investor type of books were returned for these type of businesses that Ford will put like 10 assembly lines, then they will put 20, then they will put 40, then they will keep on expanding and they will build a mood and they will ensure efficiency and they will deliver a good. Okay. Post 2000 companies like Amazon, Netflix, etc, etc. Okay. Okay. Now, they ran the first version of the internet. And now in 2025, we are on the version 2.0 2025 is a massive pivotal year. Now, what type of new M7s will be created? Well, I would argue that AI stocks, semiconductor stocks, computational power, right. You have robotics. You have CRISPR technology. CRISPR technology means gene editing, right. You have robots, arjories. Okay. You have automation at scale, right. You have drone deliveries. You have self-driving autonomous cars. This is version 2.0 of the internet. Okay. Now, what will drive this adoption forward? Like what? Like I mean, do you think nifty 50 will drive this adoption forward on NASDAQ? It will be NASDAQ. Okay. So even if you close your eyes and invest like at whatever levels on NASDAQ and if this theory turns out right that in the next 25 years or the next 15 20 years, so then buy and forget, buy and forget. Now, to buy and forget, then NASDAQ will be done. That's the only asset class worth buying and forgetting. Okay. Why? Because this is a tech index. Is it right to compare an FT 100% right what else will you compare it with? Right. It's a US index, right. So it's a market index. There are two indices, SMP 500 and NASDAQ. So I'll compare it to SMP 500 also. Okay. India does not have a tech tech index. Okay. India is an IT index. It's called an FPI T. Okay. So in the bottom line being that if the nature of the business itself is changing from factory model to internet 1.0 where Netflix, Google, Meta, etc. came up became mature become multi-trillion dollar companies. Now we are in version 2.0 of the internet. Next 10 15 years, it's a no brainer that version 2.0 companies for the internet are going to dominate. Okay. What am I doing? I will be putting almost 60 70% of my bets on US stocks. Okay. That's it. I had meticulously worked for the last one and a half to years to get myself into a position where I can actually build a big portfolio on this now. Right. What I serve you. Whatever. Right. So but the point is that even if I look at it from a secular growth perspective, this is where adoption is happening. Okay. Now you'll say that. Okay. I mean, and all that stuff. Yes. I'm not saying that India may be in India. It will be second layer adoption. Right. Very similar to how it happened for it that who are the primary buyers of it products like US Europe, right. Almost 65 70% of business for TCS emphasis comes from US Europe. Okay. Something similar will happen that you know, for example, if some variant of AI, for example, India is a very big developer community. Indian developers are really smart. If you speak with them on blockchain web 3.0, I'm well connected and like go up blockchain network. So we are trying to build like crypto adoption and go like so with a couple of startups are working. I have made investments in them. So I get to learn a lot right from these developers right to understand their viewpoint. So when it comes to developers or tech developers in India, very strong smart community. When it comes to consumers in India, they are they have no clue what is happening. Okay. So why because commercial applications Indian companies are not going to develop. Because commercial applications are built due to regulatory support. Okay. Now what do I mean by that? For example, if let's pick like crypto currencies, right. So for example, web 3.0 projects, right. This might look like Greek alien and you know, do people who are like who are not interested in tech, but I'll just conclude it in like maybe two minutes. But for example, if you consider like top crypto founders from India, okay. For example, Somad Kupptai is a good friend of mine. I mean, he runs coin DCX. It has raised like 250 million dollars. It is a three-challenge. First one was the reason Dubai. He has moved to Dubai. Okay. Vazir X guy. I don't know him. He has moved to Dubai. Okay. Mathik, which is an India based blockchain network. And our team has moved to Dubai. Now what is our fascination with Dubai? Yeah. Tax free, but it's also legitimacy of building things. Okay. World Vazir X gone nowhere. No. So see guys, I mean, honestly, it's very easy to make fun of like Vazir X, if we could have to exchange hacking over a world to all that stuff. It's start up investing. Now world was invested by Peter Thiel. Now Peter Thiel is not some food to investor, right. Peter Thiel Foundation is very big. They invest after proper due diligence. So if you put like 28% entry to X, 28% exit to X, 28% operational tags or whatever, and if nothing is left, then of course, there are, and if you freeze the bank account, what do you think is going to happen with the startup? It is going to get crushed. It's like systematically being killed. Okay. So anyways, this is not like, you know, a wedding session, right. I wanted to tell you is that people will build these type of companies if there is certainty of regulation. If there is no certainty of regulation, why would you even bother? Okay. You'll move to a location that allows you to build. In certainty, you'll know that there is no 5,000,000. At least let's focus on building like a good product. Okay. So therefore, like the first layer of adoption is going to come from like China, US, maybe you're up, like some countries, like it, Estonia is doing a lot of work, right. I'm traveling there like in another three or four months. I'll keep you guys posted. A lot of work is happening like Romania is doing a lot of work. Right. Estonia is doing a lot of work. Right. Eastern European countries are doing interesting with a lot of work. So some first layer of innovation is going to come from there. Okay. Now, of course, we cannot invest in majority of those locations, right. So what we can do is that we can invest in the US stocks. Okay. So this is like number one thesis of investment. Okay. And then comes two, three basic questions that hey, what is how do I buy US stocks? Two options. Number one, you buy it through apps like West did. Okay. So you download West did. Now, I will, I haven't spoken with West did people yet, right. I will get you guys some discount from West did. Right. So just, you know, ensure that you use that. Okay. And negotiate with their teams. I'll negotiate and give you some special offer. Not a problem. Okay. I'm because I'm an angel investor in the company. Okay. Now, you can also do I and D money, right. All these companies are there at the back end. They use the same broker. Right. The broker is called as well, Thedrive LLP. Okay. Now, this is a US based broker, which is regulated by US SEC. Okay. And your stocks, whatever you are buying, it gets held here. Now, even US citizens that buy stocks in the US, they also work with well, Thedrive LLP. It is regulated by US SEC and this. Okay. West did has a tie up with HDFC bank. Okay. You open an account with well, Thedrive, right. And you transact. Okay. Very quick operational question that is this model safe. Now there is 100% yes. Okay. Why because HDFC is involved, US SEC is involved. Ah, CB is involved. Okay. So all three parties or all three regulators are involved in terms of Indians sending money to the US for buying stocks. How can you verify this? You can when you transfer money through LRS, they will ask you that for what purpose are you transferring money. And then you will write I'm transferring money for investment purpose in the US. Okay. Because to access Indian investors, you need to go via CB. Okay. So CB does not regulate US stocks. Okay. So they are not regulating like well, Thedrive, but they are regulating HDFC, which allows you to transfer money from India to there. Okay. So that's the bottom line. Okay. So yeah. I hope that this point is clear. Right. So this comes under LRS and either save your RBI is involved. So I'm not like I'm not going to like just devising my statement. Okay. Say, now comes taxation, but okay. So let me just quickly cover that. Right. So tax means that for example, if you're an Indian, you'll say I want to buy like 10 lakh rupee of US stocks. And you will open your vested. You will give a give the instruction that first step is transfer my 10 lakh into US dollar amount. Like whatever get away 1000, 1000, 10,000, around like 11 and a half thousand dollars. Yes, something like this. Okay. So this get this first has to convert into effects. Okay. So HDFC will make this move for you. Okay. So you will have to transfer it and you will have to fill out a form. So LRS form will this go and up to 250,000 US dollars. You can legally transfer from India to the US or any other foreign location in order to make investments as an Indian citizen. Everyone with me. Okay. Now then you will buy your stock, Amazon, whatever it is. Okay. And you will trade into vested accounts. Consider vested to be like zero. Okay. So that is the role of vested that through West it's platform. You can buy and sell by and sell or whatever it is. Okay. Now you will have short term and long term tax. Now please double check it because I'm not really like following this anymore. So the long term is defined as more than two years. Okay. And the taxes 12.5 short term is 20%. Okay. So this is what I understand that this is the taxation in the US if you're doing it. Everyone clears so far. Okay. Now you will naturally say that okay, what is the point of buying like even US stocks? Right. I mean why can't we 100% stick to India? See, there are three types of risk that you're taking. Okay. One is called as asset class risk. Second is called as currency risk. Okay. And third is called as geography risk. Okay. Now as investors we need to diversify for all these three things. Okay. So asset class wise we should not 100% be invested in equities all the time. Okay. So idle split would be let's say 60 70% equities 30% some other asset. Okay. Whatever that asset you like gold you like you buy. You buy like an or real estate you buy whatever you should have. Okay. Currency risk means that okay, I and R. What if I and R keeps on falling like crazy because in 2015 when I went to insured I and R was 60 rupees to one dollar. Now it's 87 rupees to a dollar. Okay. In the last 10 years. Okay. So in the last 10 years it has been a 40% correction. So 4% on average I and R is falling. Okay. So this is a currency risk. And if this accelerates this goes to more. In fact there is a fourth risk which people don't talk about this is what is taxation risk. Okay. Taxation risk is a real risk. Okay. So for example this is the LTC debate that we are having. Geography risk means that see if some like you know India enters a war with China or India enters a war with Bangladesh or Nepal or whatever it is. Then R stocks R currency R everything gets we could. Now if your job is also in India if all your investments are also in India if everything that you buy is in Indian denominated assets. It leads to problems. Okay. So for any investor okay you should at least have 30% of your portfolio outside India. Now for example you'll say I don't know. I thought like you know Americans stocks are either and all that. I want to buy real estate. Okay. Buy real estate in Malaysia. Buy real estate in Thailand. Wherever you want to buy. So at least at diversifies. No. Thanks for you. Okay. Now you'll say how's the war going on. War was going on. All that stuff like that. You're just idiot. Okay. So no. So see what is the thing is that for example recently Sri Lanka went through a crisis Pakistan went through a crisis. Lebanon went through a currency crisis Turkey went through a currency crisis and when currency crisis is. So every month the buying power of the currency keeps going down by 10 10 15% on a monthly basis. Okay. That's how risky it gets. Not just because India is a stable country and we have done exceptionally well to maintain our stability. It's great. Okay. That we haven't gone into like wars and all that stuff but this is a possibility that is there. And there are always altercations that are there with India China and whatnot. Okay. So therefore it is very important to hedge. Okay. Because we are investor. I mean, I ran some things and say right so at least are capital whatever hard work we have done at least it should give us peace of mind. So to get that peace of mind this diversification is important. Every one with me so far. Okay. Now comes natural question that okay I don't have time to like sort of you know think about like where to diversify the way real estate could be like so much it's like the way or right to fly it but when all that. What can I do? Okay. So you buy us stocks. US denominated stocks. And if you're setting in India you can buy legally US denominated assets which is a stock. The more the INR falls the better it is or your US vote for you. Okay. Because you are getting paid in US dollar. Okay. I hope that this is clear. Okay. Final point that I would like to tell right I mean this I've already indicated but I'll just quickly like you know sort of share it here. That's see from a tax risk perspective that's if in India LTCG goes from 12.5% to 30% you can't do anything. Okay. But at least right now if you're an Indian tax resident you are building your US vote for you. Okay. You are let's say over the next 10 years you build like a portfolio of 300,000 US dollar. How much tax are you paying zero why because this is just a portfolio that you have invested you have not booked any profits. Okay. So after five years you decided to move to Dubai. Okay. Now you become a Dubai tax resident now your count gets transferred directly and you book let's say you are profit your portfolio is at 50% profit. How much tax will you pay on this entire game answer is zero. Okay. So why because that's what the tax law says. Okay. So please check with your CEO also right regarding this but this is what I know right and it can be moved. It's not a problem. Okay. So you might be in a situation that where you are currently in India investing for the long term. You want to buy and forget you don't want to do too much jig jig you just want to diversification hedge. Great. Start putting some money outside India right and now one quick point that some of you might be having kids and for example I have two kids. Now let's say I am in India I cannot leave India I don't want to live outside India for more than I will be in India for more than one 20 days. Okay. Then I cannot be a tax resident of Dubai. Okay. So if you want to be a tax resident of some other country then first and foremost maximum that you can live in India is one 20 days on self employment visa. Okay. If you find a job it's a different thing. Okay. But for self employment you can tell the conservative estimate then maximum you can stay in India is one 20 days. Every on with me and I'll say I am old like and I don't know live I wonder live here only right about me. So then I will just stay in India. So then if you are planning a US portfolio with vested or whatever open it in your kids name. Okay. If the kid is 18 or something right or whatever can be done if that is a possibility do it there. Whoever can become a tax resident of some other country. Okay. Because for example my kids are young right so in Kalytham I can't be. And myself I'm becoming a tax resident. So I'm okay but many people would not have that flexibility but you might have kids who are like you know 17 18 something of that sort. So you start you encourage them to open an account right there and you do US stock investing via them. Everyone is understanding why because changing that tax residency might be easier for them then compared to you. Okay. Both and I have got to go to work and you know just live there for like you know whatever like six six months and book all the profits and bring back whatever right. So then you can do that. But if you have to go then it might become a problem so you can always say that if you are not in both the cases then pay tax right and there is no other option that I can suggest okay. So I can suggest options that like and finally like I mean you think you've been here you've been here then I cannot really help you. I hope that this is clear. UnilT has a question. Yes. Keep it relevant to this. Right. Yeah. Hi, actually my question is rated on couple of things but more to the by real estate. So can I raise a question now or. I did. Okay. Okay. All right. So I hope that this is clear to everyone. Okay. There is a video on tax residency that I've done. So you've you search. Akshad. How to become an NRI. It will give you more details on how you can become an NRI in case you are interested in that. And you all the options it's your pick how you want to pick and choose okay. This is not a push by your banjo right and all that stuff you know. No nothing like that whatever you like to be a bit of a booker look right. Everyone's individual situation is different. Okay. So I cannot push what needs to be done. But to cut the long story short even if let's assume that you cannot become a tax resident of any other country for a foreseeable future. Should you invest in the US market yes. Why two reasons number one. I know is constantly depreciating it will continue to depreciate. Maybe the rate of differentiation will go down 3% 2% whatever it is number two. Secular growth is happening in tech 2.0. India has zero tech 2.0 autonomous driving cars or self driving cars will not be built in India. Robotics will not be built in India crisper technology will not be built in India. Now high end surgical practices will not be built in India right. Drone delivery will not be built in India first etc etc so therefore it's critical that you have like I mean if you're saying that it any or basis I want to invest. Please remember this shot right please remember this shot right where you're looking at Naznaq versus Nifty divergence this will continue. This is not going to go down. Why because what you really have to answer one critical question forget about stock investing the real question to ask is that what is generating the real growth in the world. The answer is tech more precisely tech 1.0 post 2025 what will generate real growth in the world. The answer is tech 2.0 and most of this innovation will happen in China and US. So having exposure to one preferably both kind of makes sense every one with me this was a very important point. How much even if you're an Indian tax resident I would recommend between 20 to 30% at least. Now comes that okay find agree right now where can I start my US investing what are the assets that I should look at what are some of the things that I should keep in mind. So here is like you should first and foremost learn ETF investing in the US. And here are your options and these tickers are important for example if you go and type SPY right so here you can go and type SPY so add girl. SPY okay so this is. So this is SPDR S&P 500 this is the broad market okay this is still like you know doing better than nifty as of now here it did well better than nifty okay and it pretty much mirrors nifty why because this is the broad US index this is not a tech specific index okay. Similarly if you want to have options of other type of ETFs for example if you want to buy let's say European stocks then you type F E Z okay so F E. So this is your F E Z right now you'll see that it generally underperforms nifty 50 also and it generally underperforms everything else also. Similarly there are like China based index result 2000 is small cap it's called I W M okay if you want to buy Dow Jones then this the symbol is DIA. Now I have that ready yes so for example this is called as fact sheet okay so fact sheet means that for example if you're looking at a ticker CSP X okay so you just Google on CSP X or NASA DAC okay ticker and you will get this type of a fact sheet okay now here you can read this is a one-pager document that will explain everything to you okay that what is a literature like. So all the information is very well designed in the US that's the good part so you in case you don't understand much about the ticker symbols that okay what is NASA what is Dow Jones what is like S&P 500 what is like China ETF F TX SXLK etc then please read something called as the fact sheet okay that will that's a one-pager document I'll not take you through every fact sheet that is there but if you do this this is good enough everyone with me okay so this introduces you. So this introduces you to the ETF universe in the US now the good part about the ETF universe in the US is very simple that it is very well structured there are a lot of very well thought out structured simple to use products okay now for example many of you think that you know what okay Nifty 50 is going to go down okay I want to bet on this that Nifty 50 is going to go down what will you do. You will say I'll short the market yeah short the market means that you sell today by tomorrow but which index will you buy to do that or how will you exactly short it will go to the futures forward market okay that's a problem okay but in the US there are structured products for you to short the market okay so again I have put this on this and I'll send you this list as well these are called as inverse ETFs for the example this is called as short NASDAQ 100 so the symbol is PSQ okay so let me just okay so QQQ Q and let's add PSQ okay so what you will see is a complete mirror image right that for example if you are betting on the fact that NASDAQ is going to fall then what should you do you should buy PSQ okay so this okay if you are betting on the fact that NASDAQ is going to rise you should buy this okay and you can see this let me just show it to you right okay for example 2008 right so you'll see that this purple line to short up compared to NASDAQ NASDAQ is the Japanese candlestick red and green this purple line is short PSQ okay so this is shorting if you are double short by the journey on a NASDAQ okay so then what can you do you can buy double short S&P 500 you can short S&P 500 the ticker is this if you want to short only financial stocks the ticker is this if you want to double short bonds okay that you are against bonds then you buy TBT okay so the point is that there are a lot of structured ETFs in the US which you can buy and here is a complete list it will take you at least 20 hours to get access to all this right financials excel spreadsheet with you and it will save you a lot of time okay so this is like a structured product or series of structured products that you can buy if you want to buy China well and good if you want to buy short S&P 500 there is a product if you want to buy NASDAQ you can buy if you whatever you want to buy there is a product associated with it okay so I hope that this point is clear about ETFs if you are at stage one of US investing I would really encourage you to learn ETF investing in the US it doesn't work too differently from the India investing that I've taught you right you have to how can we join and you so you just like go on my website and do it right I mean I'll ask my team to drop like a note right on whatsapp because a lot of people have asked me but I hope that this point is clear okay when that stage one of US investing is ETF investing okay you start there even I'm investing there okay so this is one right and you experiment with M7 stocks and next M7 stocks okay now what does the meaning of M7 stocks M7 stocks are Meta Google Microsoft Netflix Tesla these are like your M7 top top companies okay what are next M7 stocks so these are emerging contenders okay now here you look at the fastest grow three of companies right so for example there is no M7 ETF okay for that you buy NASDAQ because that's a proxy to M7 right because almost 35 40% weight of NASDAQ comes from M7s okay so if you don't want to buy like Google Amazon Netflix Meta individually you just simply buy NASDAQ okay now comes that okay how about buying the index etc you can buy now so that's what I'm saying that NASDAQ is like trade of a decade okay so you should definitely buy half some positions on NASDAQ why because macro thesis works out beautifully okay so for example like I'm here to see if you take like for example even now I'll just close this case okay so for example this is still in a bull trend okay so you can see that this is still bullish right and trend reversal hasn't happened right now it might very well go like something like this okay so for example it might very well happen something like this okay and the trend line might continue but a channel breakdown has happened so is this a good time to buy yes what are you buying your buying roughly a from top you're buying roughly a 14 15% price correction right and almost a year of time correction okay so this is not a so I will not say that this is like you know over value I will not say that you know this is like undervalued but is it a good time to start building your positions yes so first 25% positions that you will build you can do it blindly okay as long as you are buying in a downward market okay the next 25 so I thought you're going to be like final 25 you have to apply the most brain okay so but as of now great time to enter NASDAQ if you look at it at an individual stock level so for example if you go and study Google I mean we have spoken about it so here what you will notice is that again a channel breakdown has happened on Google right I have already drawn this channel for you if you study how much it has fallen from its peak right it has fallen roughly 25 26% from its peak so is it a good time to buy Google tomorrow yes okay very good time okay what about Amazon okay so at least your first bulk buy should happen okay we can it fall by another 10% yeah suppose it can't right but will you lose money in the long term very unlikely okay what about this again a channel break down has happened right so for example if you consider Amazon right so I'm happy again 25 26% downtrend has already happened right same applies to Microsoft so all big big good companies are all in by more than 20 25% now it's a guy you know you know but I very share on it with you to do that and all that stuff right so many so get the part of it so yes let us understand okay that what actually meta data tells us about US investing okay so here is like a data that my team has compiled right and what you will see is that if you study the last 75 years of US investing history okay 58 years have been bullish years 16 or 21 percent of the times the market has been bearish okay so in 20 25 is this a bullish year or a bearish year for US stocks bearish okay which means what that this is a buyer okay this probably might be sell else okay you get fewer opportunities to buy US stocks okay so this is like the reason why that even if it looks overvalued by it okay buy a little bit okay now animal percentage gain or loss so for example if we are looking to buy like in which zone are we we are already in this zone okay because what is Nasdaq telling us that it is almost at 15% discount okay we are here so there is only a 5.4% probability that Nasdaq falls or like the index falls by around 15% if it falls more great awesome right now if it falls by 40% even amazing okay but we are already buying in a very good zone okay so everyone understands okay so what am I going to do I am going to do 33% of my investment now will I be at a loss most likely yes in the short term only but on a 3 4 year basis right I am most likely mathematically speaking studying the 75 year history I will be okay okay every hundred me okay 20 25 is a great time to build your portfolio is right so I mean that's what I would say now S&P 500 right I mean for example if you take this that for example what is the size of the decline so we are in 15% or more zone this happens only once every 3 years okay so this again is very solid this is important 20% or more right for example if you buy it today I don't know what you buy it like 100 okay and it falls by another 5% so then from the top get the idea 20% discount your portfolio will be at 95k now some people will start creating Rakhas Kya Rakhs Riyal Khadil Yadar right and you know what like a nook Sanu we have 5,000 US dollars cut this that so but by please see this happens once every 6 years only okay so it's not as if that you know you bought like something bad just have patience have show patience for 2 3 years this will give you very good games okay so this is another very important point okay now if we look at air wise right that Y2D YTD it's a yield till here okay yielded air till date okay so you will see that half for example that typical like air wise a gram Jai so it can have you nook San you that's usually like the anticipated thing is that by the year recovery will happen right on whatever you are buying now so therefore like my estimate is that this year itself I will invest like close to like $6,000 to $7,000 my ideas to put like $2 million over the next 1 to 2 years okay maybe even $3 million right depends right on a lot of things but yeah the idea is to have like a 3 4 million dollar portfolio in the US first 1 million dollar I want to build fast so I'm doing it this year because of this metadata which I have spent a lot of time creating for you guys okay so hopefully this kind of makes sense okay now you would say that okay fine right what can we buy first right so I would advise you to either consider broad market or narrow tech market okay now broad market means what broad market means S&P 500 okay now you go here and you look at S&P okay so this is called as Spx okay so here you will see right now if you and get to buy this is this a bulk by zone for me yes I'll at least have 35 40% of my position in this zone right now okay so like I mean if I get to buy this okay everyone with me okay why because I showed you the metadata okay so I showed you the metadata and if you consider this fall this is like a 14 15% fall on the broad index this rarely happens okay so therefore this is like good time right and if there is a trend reversal right as we studied in the morning time that trend also reverses that technique applies even to the US market right so for example this if you get something like this this happens this is a death cross over and this is called as technically this is called a death cross over okay and here it means that most likely you are going to get this level at least okay so this becomes your first bulk by point right whatever this number comes out to be right I mean I'll definitely inform you guys but this is there is a very high probability that this will happen okay so I don't know like I'm and in the short term and it's very difficult to give like short term commentary on the market but this is like you know this is very likely to happen right so that's all I can say it looks this way that this will happen on S&P 500 then you buy S&P 500 also okay every on that me okay now if NASDAQ returns are better why do we buy see it's like saying that he HDFC bank that around our better why do you buy a codec you buy a diversify as much as possible you buy good quality asset and good price so if you're getting SP by and good quality which is a good quality asset yes is it available at good price yes you buy that NASDAQ is it a good quality asset yes is it available at a good price right now yes okay so definitely it kind of makes sense to buy okay now in what's our community I will do this only on I can't really show my portfolio to I cannot mix Indian and US stocks okay so it becomes like a regulatory challenge for me right so that's an issue because whenever I'm writing commentary for US stocks I can literally write the words by and sell okay but if I'm by writing commentary on Indian stocks because I'm not say we registered I cannot indicate that I'm increasing people to buy something because it's a nightmare for me so therefore I have separated the community is all together right from that I'm okay but honestly this is not like a sales pitch or anything I mean honestly I'll give you enough information on this class itself so that you can do your portfolio if you are considering building a bigger portfolio then only an RI community kind of makes sense because there I primarily speak about US stocks okay beyond 10 lakhs there is a TCS see TCS gets refunded it's not as if that the government takes away that money for you okay so I'm okay so much consular agree what date is today 30th okay we are a little bit late otherwise you would have transferred money like you know to the model right and then it would not have attracted like TCS but now if you do it in January it's fine but like end of the world okay so it's okay it's I I don't think there is anything that we can do on that okay so anyways I hope that this is clear now comes sectoral index okay and these are called as segment index now these are very important right so please make a note right and these are some high powered segment index for example so XX is semi conductor index this will have companies like NVIDIA this will have company like ASML etc so this is very good if you want to buy a competitor to NASDAQ then you can buy something called as XLK if you want to buy artificial intelligence now this industry in the US is growing at 16 17% okay cyber security is expected to grow another like 18 19% robotics I don't recall the exact growth rate but it is definitely 15% plus cloud computing this is growing at like at least like 15% plus clean energy in the US right this is growing at a very fast rate some are saying that this is growing at more than 30% so these are all good indexes to consider okay everyone with me that what do you do like I mean and this is like where I will write you know sort of give you and I put and give you and I'll put for your level understanding of that okay let's say that you have 10 likes you invested 6 likes in India 4 likes you want to diversify out of India what should you do you should buy 2 lakh broad index this could be NASDAQ this could be S&P 500 yeah 2 lakhs you should buy narrow index for example SOX, robotics, cloud etc right the list that I should okay so these are this is a decent strategy now should you buy like like a blind person no like I mean here you have to go and check for example go and check what is happening on SOX so here you go and okay so you type SOX X okay so you this will indicate I share semiconductor ETF okay now then what do you notice here number 1 trend has changed okay so it is brilliant okay it is down 28% from its peak is it a great time to build start building positions yes how much minimum money you should invest right now 25 30% then if the trend continues downward okay like this okay and this is like blue okay so it goes like this then you invest in this entire curve okay as much money as possible then one day this trend is going to reverse right maybe like this right and then you have something like this right this right and this is where you start minting money on this index everyone understands okay from the morning session it's okay so you have to analyze all these individual indices like that okay everyone gets it how to get started on the US stock investing okay now comes the completed part you know what you know what oh come gladi log I mean like you know small cast small stocks directly read me and we have to like you know sort of buy like you know Microsoft Tesla all this stuff see it's little bit complicated right because US stocks move really fast okay and US stocks move a lot around earnings okay so one piece of advice that I'll give you is that always keep an eye out on something called as earnings report okay and public city is a wonderful tool for this right so for example you go on public city and type that earnings estimate for N video okay so then you will say that okay in order as analyst expect like the earnings to go up by 10% or whatever right so then you will get up forecast that okay is the okay is it still trying to come in video okay right and then you make a call whether it kind of makes sense given the price level trend level all that stuff to add or delete stocks yes now this is something that I do like on daily basis it's difficult for me to tell you on this class whether or not you should be buying in video all that stuff because US stocks move really fast but honestly like I mean the key message that I wanted to deliver what do you guys see if you stick primarily to index also as an Indian investor you are getting at least 70 80% juice out of US markets okay so it's not as if that you need to go to individual stocks to begin with if you're getting handful of good individual stocks for example Google Microsoft etc etc then you can consider buying it now otherwise if you just do a play between broad index and sectoral index at least you are able to extract 60 70% of the juice everyone with me okay like I mean suppose I'm a guy right so that's it so that's where you'll stop okay so I'll take questions guys right I hope you enjoyed the course right the course does not end here right the course continues right so you'll get like at least 400 posts from my site right on wisdom as community right on WhatsApp channels right if some of you can afford to come right to Dubai right please attend my in-person events are really good right people have really enjoyed it right now you get to build a network that's my sort of value add honestly I lose money running like live in-person events but I still do it because it's really good for building the community meeting a lot of people so if you guys can afford it I know it's a little bit expensive but it's considered it as an investment right how you'll learn a lot about international investing you will learn a lot about tax residencies I'll have my CEO where I'll have like good people so if you can do that then definitely try to attend like an international event you'll get a flavor of what's happening outside India right important okay so like I mean I'll teach crypto's also a little bit okay so that's important right so please see if you can do it right I mean I know it's costly so I'll not push you and neither this is like a marketing tactic or anything but yeah I mean it is it is like an event right and if you can do it that that's wonderful right otherwise it's okay it's not as if that you know you can do it subsequently like if I organize such sessions subsequently you can definitely be a part of it okay that's one second irrespective of whether you follow me not follow me etc please trust your brain this course was designed to at least make you a little bit more intellectually curious about things okay and not just take anyone's word for it right for example I might say a lot of bullshit okay now someone else might say a lot of bullshit right you don't need to trust anyone at the end of the day it's your hard and money right so you make decisions what are best for you okay I generally in my life I have made decisions which are best for me right so similarly I really think that like people who sort of watch my content engage with my courses etc they are smart people right so my job is to show you direction my job is not to spoon feed you right can be a local HDFC and all that's not the idea you guys are smart enough and I think I look so I am I am a portfolio beat I'm a student which makes me really happy so it's just cool with me right so I really want you guys to do that right so do that right important point is that please do not create what's up group you will get scammed okay so this is happened in the past okay so it's at your risk if you want to join like any what's up group okay so anyways like I cannot say anything but yeah so important point is that please diversify that's the most important angle that I would suggest or honest wealth growth right diversification means that you invest money in India no problem invest 50 60% money whatever it is invest at least 20 30% outside invest 5% in crypto take it as a learning lesson right by cryptos I mean only bit okay no other cryptocurrency learn about tax residency if you travel for example always merge your travel with learning for example if you are going to Malaysia just see and visit like some land okay if you are going to Thailand contact like two three brokers and see something okay I don't know like I mean how your husband wife will feel about that but like if you can't I mean I always do that like so I I'm always like on work right my wife gets very frustrated you know I do it for like research purpose it's like fun for me so if you can do that it gives you like a lot of insights right and yeah so that's that's where I would say I would not like overstretch things I'll try to take like as many questions as possible right now let's make it like chat oriented only so honestly yes Kishore I'll try to answer and yes you will receive like regular communications from my side three four key things right so one is that please join the whatsapp channel right you will receive regular updates from my side starting tomorrow number two the excel spread sheets that I've used on this course I will send it to you you can take a look right and that's two third when it comes to wasted and incorrect money I incorrect money I've sent the link so just open it you will get 2% discount so this is maximum that they were offering but you can use that and wasted copy I'll check with the team and us and tell them right key what best traits they can offer so do that okay so and not a push that you take like any of my courses and nothing of that sort I'm like no interest in like selling anything if you feel valuable and then take it otherwise leave it okay so nothing you are hopefully I was able to do justice to your time more than anything else R.O. is the one you guys are all right un-engine yes yeah can you be yeah I can yeah thank you oxard it's been a very insightful session over the past two days I'm actually attending the event in Dubai but let me pre-empt the question that I have in mind so I have our properties in Bangalore which are actually matching me rent okay so I'm thinking based on your you know I'm based also in Dubai so whether I should partially sell these properties and buy a property in Dubai or should I take a mortgage against these properties from bank in Dubai and buy a property in Dubai this is my first question you are already in Dubai and that's what you say right and you are having a cash history here right I mean the then you take in Dubai right the rate of interest is much more sensible here so you'll get like property loan at what like five five and a half yeah five and a half six yeah and you can easily find a property like around seven percent ROI right so it makes a lot of sense to take loan in Dubai right this try to see if you're buying in this market try to find near ready property or already ready property don't buy like you know far-fetched three four years type of properties okay thank you my second question is I mean it's a very operational dessert's recordings can you suggest some bite-sized recordings that you could refer I know to refer to refreshes today's learnings oh no so like honestly I think some girls might be there who take like very good notes I'm stereotyping right please share it with me I'll share it with the class okay so no butch one day like I know I'm like I always take it from like my female colleagues all these notes so they write like have very nice handwriting generally and all that so I try to share it with you if someone some some class student shares it with me right so I'll send it to the class okay the third question is basically about it's about you know for how long with this recordings be available and is it possible that we can is it possible that we can get a downloadable version of this recording so you can use downloadable no right but you have like one year right but for some reason you're not able to watch it yeah or as you will both then I'll extend it that's not an issue okay so I get fine it's not a problem at mind I'll extend it I cannot down make it downloadable for you I circulate it and all that stuff yeah okay the bottom reason why I'm asking is because if it can be downloadable then you can use AI to summarize the that's the only reason but I think you have to it will probably get circulated but see you know summarizing of the videos would not really make sense right I mean just watch it once twice because honestly you are putting like a lot of your hard-earned money on the line so even if you have to spend like another 10 hours watching these it's worth it right from the ringer just watch it once extract the essence and be out that you don't need to rewatch this anyways whatever I'm going I'm anyway is going to write like byte size notes for you on whatsapp so now the question comes that can you act on it for example if tomorrow I show the commentary hypothetically that by like xyz stock like or indicate that by xyz stock if it's an Indian stock then it it it really depends on your confidence level whether you're able to do it or not okay thank you so much yeah all right Kishot yes yeah thanks so much for this insightful sessions last couple of weekends and it was really helpful I have one like small question so basically let's say right now you mentioned right whenever some investing style matured that it turns out diminished basically so for example SIPs were very good for some duration for the last let's say few last 10 years now SIPs have lost so how about you how do you see us talk investing in from that sense from foreign investors basically is that yeah so that's that's not us talk investing is not comparable to SIP investing right us talk people are misguided about like us economy us economy is the number one customer base out there okay trump is bringing a lot of businesses back to the US trump US was a very slow conventional corporate type of economy trump came and the type of moves that he has made these are very pro capitalist moves he has put US ahead in the map now right I mean he has pushed US by like 10 years at least okay so I like I know like I'll get a lot of like negativity trump is like this person that person see I'm not commenting on his personality okay I'm just commenting on his policy actions from a capitalism point of view and how it drives the market for example and this is something that I've tweeted also that for example the total debt repayment of the US is $1 trillion what trump has done is that he has created doge now how do you repay that you'd repay that either by increasing taxes or spending less yeah so US government plans on spending less now where are the cutting down spending by doge which is Elon Musk right so Elon Musk is responsible for cutting like half the government yes we inspire people at scale and bureaucrats are dead of it's okay so like that you are seeing an India also it's just not like you know something that is there only in like US or something right so it's an over bloated government so he's cutting like creating efficiency by that second thing that he's doing is that he is bringing revenues now how is we bringing revenues so some countries which he can bully for example India you better carry them and I'm all right and pay like whatever 15 20% RF if you don't do it I'll mess you up right so that's what he has simply stated in like closed-door meetings and many countries will have to bend backwards except for China and maybe like handful of two three more countries everyone will have to bend down to his wishes okay so he'll make a additional revenue there third is that he's cutting taxes because a lot of US millionaires I keep on meeting a lot of these guys here in Dubai so a lot of US millionaires their problem was that he and what was US is like really bad on taxation right so I mean the taxes are really high now if you are able to like bring down taxes what does that ensure it ensures that a lot of quality people actually want to live in the US so he's trying to retain that talent so if you look at it from a five-year basis US is on a positive trajectory so there is nothing to fear and it's actually great even for India because if US progress is some advantages float to us yeah but second question is like for an Indian investor apart from like for example vested takes via via SDF we are able to convert INR to USD and then invest so apart from like SDFs taking that Forex transaction charges is there any other risk that you see either like government risk or any other risk of sending money from India to abroad because for me for stable future it is for me converting tax residency from India to another country right now is not feasible maybe at a later point in time so any other risk that you see for doing this see structural risk is that you know this will be discouraged with time right because the TCS is also sorry TCS is also a new rule it's what was not there before like 2022 so this rule came into effect either 2022 or 2023 now what will happen is that if Indian government wants to discourage people from sending USD abroad or sending INR to buy ULT abroad what they are going to do is they are going to just jack up this TCS so other than that there's no risk and third point basically so going forward do I expect all your YouTube commentary also to be part of that WhatsApp community it will be similar right okay thank you thank you so much yes Arat kurpreeth yes hi hi sir thanks for this session actually so I want to call session because initially I thought that you are doing less than the PPT and you know as like other partners but you know you take in the live examples and it's very you know it's good actually for us my first question is that I am in Sarja actually I'm in Majas 3 only okay so I've just started investing because I am started following from 2023 onwards because before that I'm watching some other YouTubers and I have started investing in India right now you said that you know 60% in India 40% in the US but I'm basically in Sarja so is it possible to you know of invest fully full amount in that you know in US market or in Indian market how how you doing that actually see honestly like if you are a tax resident of UAE you should be investing 90 95% of your money in US market not India market India should be a diversification play right so there is no sense for you to give up on that tax benefit that you're getting so even I over time in the next three four years I'll be like 80 90% US not India okay not because I have like not because I'm not bullish on India but because of the fact that it's 12 and a half percent advantage for me right which is guaranteed that's okay I am part of that US portfolio NR community and I'm part of the YouTube membership also so I'm following you actually to for the US market I'm just following you are portfolio and my second question is that if it is want to be invest in China or Japan okay stock markets so how we want to be invested through yeah so maybe I did not make it explicit so for example here is ETF list and if you want to buy China you can buy something like GXC because that's one way of investing in China there's something called as Hanseng index that's another index that you could purchase there is a large gap China market so that you can also buy so multiple options are there okay okay my portfolio in India is actually I have diodesized with the sectors wise actually hence the insurance more like that I have diversified so in that case which I need to sell now if you see anything that goes overvalued right so I mean you sell that first right wherever you see overvaluation for example if you have small cap mid cap stocks sell it okay if you have small cap mid cap active once sell it first if individual stocks do not make sense from a fundamental analysis right where the quality of the asset is questionable sell it first so that's how I would approach but it's I cannot like you know sort of issue like a structure to do it okay so I want to part of this even what you're going to conduct into buy right so how I will get that information in the NRE community or how to know so so it's already there on our website right so if you just search for it you'll get it otherwise I'll post it not in the show on the group right so I'll make a post right today or tomorrow right and you can take a look right thank you definitely I mean I'll encourage like you guys at least to attend right because honestly like it's very difficult to network in Dubai right so I mean it's always good to have like I'll give you an example right for example if you're looking to buy a property in Dubai right so I bought my first property in Dubai with three other investors so we bought it on the same floor four properties from one investor now because we are buying four in four properties from one single investor he gave us a good so we anyways got like 10% discount on a property which is like crazy okay so because he had to individually go and like hire four brokers and you know pay them like brokerage and all that so what's up ginger to scard here right and this is called a syndicate investing you can only do this if you find like minded people so that is the benefit of community right and yeah so I mean that's what already brought up property actually in Sarja already I bought a villa so it's in the lower actually as you said I want the massage did you buy no I buy in you know sustainability h okay thank you very much yeah okay good treat so on I actually first of all bless you and thanks for your time when I put what if I create I build a portfolio of 10 years down the line I build a portfolio around any like three C-R-5 here in the US for example and I moved to Dubai for tax saving tax and then 10 years we don't know Dubai maybe imposes 10% 20% LTC so games sorry the problem maybe like so like see it's not taxation is typically not retrospective okay now what is the meaning of that is that for example this 12.5% LTCG this gets applied from 2024 or whatever 2023 okay it does not get applied from assets that you had bought before that okay so even if that happens whatever 35% portfolio that you are building up until let's say 2030 if this LTCG in the UAE also comes in 2030 then you you get what I'm trying to say right I mean it's not as if that you know it will hit you before your 2013 investments that's one second is that from a taxation purpose UAE is already a cashier's economy there is less corruption right why because it is a monarchy they don't have to go through this bullshit of like you know elections and wasting money and you know electoral bonds and you know taking money like black from people and all that BS okay so for them there's no incentive to screw with everyday life of people okay unnecessarily because then that that will kill like their goal is not to bring more high tea people into their economy and make it a thriving kingdom right so that's what they are focused on so they understand here logo if it's a command is a lobby if it's a command right so it's cool with them so even for example it makes no sense by India will have 12.5 and UAE will also have 12.5 LTCG okay it might happen that UAE might introduce 5% LTCG subsequently at some stage okay if India is having 20 more that's how it might work and secondly in math mother what I'm thinking is and 30 years right now currently running my small business to be very honest so investing or I aim to create a corpus by 40 42 years of age roughly 10CR around and I can retire yeah no maybe I'll do it maybe I'll not do it I do so will I be able to do like live freely to be honest like I don't know it's 10CR enough yeah I would say that right for example my expenses once here because I'm traveling quite a lot I have like multiple fixed cost liabilities like owning a you know property and charjana right where I'm paying rent and all that stuff but if you're not having these type of liabilities you can easily survive on like you know 25 30 lakhs a year it's so which brings you up portfolio down to even by a factor of 5 so 5CR is more than enough that that means and apparently I'm in the second stage portfolio age but mixed rate so 25 say once year if I ever like two one two years three years maybe I don't know about goa real estate so if I try and I search for properties can I ask you for any suggestion just suggestion so I'm always available to my students right so I mean don't ask me that you know how to get it with me explain me like I'm telling you an email right and I'll try to respond to it so that's not an issue right this drop me like a WhatsApp email tell you tell me if you're my student and I'll always be available to help so the number you have like from I'm your and I'm your community member so you both know yes yes yes you can drop okay this remind me like two three times I'm like slow at responding I don't need my phone right as long as you do that I'll respond not an issue yeah thanks thanks a lot thank you yeah sohan avena quick to question so first this little consist about the tax on the US stocks on profit working if I'm an Indian tax resident is it only the Indian LTC LTEGA that is that is applicable India and US has a double taxation avoidance agreement which means that you pay tax in only one jurisdiction which is India just India okay so it's similar to what I would be in on an Indian stock yes but the definition of short term in sorry definition of long term on US stock investing as far as I know for Indian tax resident is two years okay anything above two years is tax at 12.5 right less than that is 20 okay second question I had as so you're talking about phase two is where it's good to start on property investment fixer asset investment so if I'm buying something on loan if there are thumb rule on how much should be the mind with respect to the cash flow yes so see minimum cash flow from your property should be 4% so for example if you're buying a one-crow or property the cash flow that you should get is it minimum four lakhs a year right so in each of them I'm not here right almost 1995 percent of your properties get eliminated many people you know start getting very agitated that there are no such properties like this and all that in India there are okay almost every single property that I've bought meets the criteria it's just that you have to scout harder right so that's one second is that your own EMI situation should not go haywire right for example if you and your wife are earning like a two lakhs and if you are paying an EMI of one lakh it doesn't make sense okay the EMI total repayment should not be more than 33% of your household combined income thanks such a thanks all right yeah so I had a webu account when I was in US I did and bank in 21 can I keep using that account I also had a bank account in US so I think it is okay so like legally I don't know like what if you open if you get to open a bank account typically countries will not close your bank account which is like a loop right so you keep on using it oh there's no harm and second question is we have this Mirai asset fang it be a fang of motila lo swall nasda 100 in the bakery season and I mean they unnecessarily charge you like two three layers of commission okay on the best of commissions a month I they will just screw you on commissions like anything okay so don't just try to keep investing in your hand and it's very difficult to exit these type of stock these type of funds okay I ask because I I kept investing like SIP in these ETFs and it gave like 70 80% returns in last two three years yeah after all it is 40% up okay so apart from commission yeah there is Indians yeah you see it's not motila's magic that helps you generate like 70% turn up you this was motila lo swall nasdaq one so nasdaq itself like that amount of return by going through motila you are paying two layers of commissions which is not required right so that's what I'm hinting at right so I've arrested your fault right now you approach it that's not about the absolute amount of returns that you're making it's more it has got more to do with the fact that it's more more to do with the fact that are you saving like at least one layer of commission and last question I had purchased YouTube membership so should I cancel it for one year and continue on for this okay thank you hey hi akshad thank you for for this course very pragmatic practical macro approaches very helpful thank you I'm in a bit of flux so my residency status has changed to Europe very recently but I do not have cash flow here yet all of my significant portfolio is in India I hear your your your guidance on diversification particularly US and so on what's the best practice for me because if I repatriate then perhaps I'll have to pay a lot of I don't know money repatriating it makes most sense for me to operate out of here now the the the cost structure the tax structures really good as good as yours what would be a good I good good good way so you're saying that in Europe the tax structure is okay for you it's what's in it is seeming okay god it got it good okay so I'm not aware of like Switzerland's tax structure right I looked at it but what's a good way to start to operate from here I do not have cash flow yet maybe soon but not yet see in Switzerland what happens is that it's a great wealth protection country because with Frank it does not go down in value it rather appreciates compared to US dollars it's one of the strongest currencies the downside is that there are not many investible options in entire Europe because it's a socialist system okay now therefore you have to go and explore opportunities in emerging markets now what you can do is that depending on your quantum of money that you're investing if I were you I would figure out a private bank that I can work with that can give me access to more investible options in like Middle East emerging markets Southeast Asia and I would not also US perhaps from here US right so yes so all these options right I'll have to check but I have to take that taxation or so I don't know they come in about the taxation part but if assuming that it's zero tax or whatever right then you know all these options are better compared to putting money in Europe all of my money through is lying in India now and I do not have a cash flows yet in Europe so no one's to bring that money to bring that money to Switzerland right and then invest via Switzerland because the taxation is lower right the other one is you explained about the parabolic fall is there a best practice to not get caught in it I know there may be a is it a day candle or a weekly what's a good way to identify the start you cannot try and see what happens is that if the market corrects 15 20 percent for example right now it's corrected 15 percent will assume yeah you know what 20 percent is other it will and he is not correct then it suddenly falls like 30 percent and then you are stuck in that parabolic fall so just go through that parabolic fall that's the way to deal with the parabolic fall okay thank you action yep Paul Somashya you know yeah good evening Sheth thanks a lot for this great sessions and really we feel very grateful for you this session and kind of a request is that if we have this all these materials in our through the Warsaw Community it will be better for us to learn and ask the doubts and get the guidance further and we have touched this topic taking a loan and investing in real estate makes sense so my in a barium living that area this interest rate is around 8 to 9 percentage household interest rate and the rental yield what we will get is 4 percentage maximum so the rental yield is very much lesser than the cost of capital and so so many of our people also our grandparents will be used to do this kind of things only so it's still advisable because the cost of capital is going to increase because for 20 years of ten years if I'm getting a loan for 60 lakhs I'm going to pay finally at 1.3 crores so no so see I mean that's a complicated topic I can't really comment without understanding the exact nature of real estate you're buying but just broad understanding is that's the real estate grows for other returns on real estate are computed in two ways one is the rental yield that you're making and the underlying property appreciation in Dubai if you buy flats then the rental yield is exceptional but the underlying property appreciation is not that high it's the opposite situation in Goa right that if you buy a villa the rental yield if you can find 4-5 percent it's great because the underlying growth rate of Goa villa is a very high right so they have to mix and match and see but I like to stop for me to like you know sort of give like a general commentary here yes for capital protection our underlying asset appreciation for this thing we can retain right I don't know maybe it's it's it's okay okay and then what what if you are what if not it will generate cash flows the property is not generating the cash flows you said about agricultural land buying agricultural land is there any advantages of owning agricultural land you know that's an entirely different conversation that you're starting which I'll not be able to wrap up in like a Q&A format right so that requires like a different you know layer of thinking right so which so therefore I'm not I don't want to like you know comment on something which will put you in trouble right so just being conservative right so I would not say anything that's the guidance only not it probably I cannot say anything I cannot say that by agricultural land you might be buying it with the intent of generating cash flow now cash flows are really bad on agricultural land so agricultural land generally does it make sense maybe right it depends on a lot of factors since I've not taught that on this you know sort of setups I can't really comment yeah okay thank you so much and one more thing this one kind request from me that we want a video from you in the SWP systematic withdrawal plan how it is doing some end up tricks we have confirmed that SAP is kind of a scam you said so let's wrap it up for SWP itself okay we want a special request video on this and also for the NPS to cut down the taxes in the future NTCG okay NPS know like when I am not we want from you the video thank you thank you so much thank you right so much yes hi sir first of I want to thank you for such a eye opener and life changing course thank you I am in share market since last one and a half year okay and 80% and lost 50% 50% even in half years okay previously I was doing trying to get 50% on my 20% for for you okay and the one take care from of course is it is more better to take 20% again from 50% for you it is more safe yeah absolutely so that's by in that way I will change my investment thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you very much thank you first of all thank you akshed for such a lovely you know course over these four weeks and I was always against stocks I used to stock my husband as well but now I myself because I'm convinced that I should go ahead and do it so all thanks to you now my first question is because we are I mean I'm living in Singapore so can I completely overlook Indian stock market and instead just invest in a US and China market because do I understand the Indian sentiment but despite that no so basically like India serves a purpose even for enterprise right it's an emerging market play so you should always have like 20 25% of your capital in an emerging market unless you're getting some kind of structural tax advantage then also I have like at least 10 15% of your equity in emerging market so cut the long story short you at least need to have 15% India exposure okay now my second question is as you said that we can have we can do blogging as well for the you know recurring income tiny bit of cash for something so my only thing is because I am into tarot and astrology which you've been continuously mentioning so is it a good idea to mix two things only when I reach a level where I understand stocks myself no I don't know like anything about that tarot and astrology it's a scam to me so like I don't want to offend you or anything right but I don't know that's okay that's absolutely fine and my last question is because there's an NRA WhatsApp group right so is it a same book that you've joined for this course so there's a different group so I talk about like US talk investing separately right so there are regular classes right so every month we meet and discuss my portfolio whatever updates I give very clear buying cell calls so that's NRI community right so that's there on my what that's there on my website if you go and check you will get access to it and also post written in do I search what's called as NRI communities is just such search NRI community wisdom much and you will be able to access it okay okay thank you so much Aksha thank you once again thank you all thank you all thank you for everything my question is a bit personal related and my son is going to become a US citizen in another six eight months time okay so should I open a phone with him to buy US stocks or okay then he didn't his account only or I become a tax resident of Dubai or some other place and do that so US has a high tax account will be upwards of two CRs yeah no so best option is that you become a tax resident of UA if you want to trade like a capital of two three CR it's a lot of capital reason is that US is a high tax economy so your son will also have to pay very high tax you will also have to pay very high tax because you're an indent tax resident so there is no tax saving by going to or becoming a US tax resident or so US taxed isn't US citizenship even worse because US tax has a worldwide taxation even if your son comes to Dubai and becomes a tries to become a UA tax resident he can't yes that's the issue so you should become like a tax resident of Dubai okay I'll try to come down and meet you in the way when let's see please come right and I think that's going to be a really interesting event right so if you can make it definitely do it okay yeah actually I actually I live in UK and 60 or 70 80 percent of my investment is in India because I started some time ago that's okay but my problem is my taxes are affected at source there because I am registered as an NRI even if I buy something from UK through IBCR or anything I also have to file tax because I'm under on the high tax from mark slab so if I if I invest through West Tech it is a matter of so you will still have to pay UK taxes because you're UK tax resident right so who's trading an Indian account even if you invest see tax residency means primarily right for simple simpler understanding that you are a resident of a particular country or tax resident of a particular country right now you are a tax resident of a UK or UK economy now UK is a high tax country India is a high tax country there is no tax arbitrage this US is a high tax country right so these are all high tax countries where do you get benefit if you move to like UA you get a lot of benefit if you want to share taxation is generally lower if you move to let's just sing up or then again capital unions is zero so these are efficient tax economies so the point if your goal is to reduce taxation number one you have to move to a low tax economy okay last question quickly if I have an HSBC account which get global HSBC account which I operate from UA I can start an account in UA as well will I be able to start and you will still not get tax benefits right the entire goal of offshore account is to get access to more investment instruments for example if an Indian tax resident it's very difficult for you to buy cryptocurrencies okay or BTC because there is no option to buy cryptocurrencies legitimately in India what do you do you need a offshore bank account so that you know sort of buy so then HSBC account kind of makes sense right in your case UK residents can buy cryptocurrency easily there is no problem yeah so yeah there is no benefit for you on that right and yeah unfortunately 50 55% taxpayer on top I'm a 55% taxpayer only get 45 65% you pay tax 55 55 I'm a consultant or it's no consultant so if I earn 100 pounds I will get 45 in my hands and you're doing freelancing or what exactly I'm freelancing why you don't need a UK contract work contracting I'm not as a freelancing but we can do contract work for hospitals okay but why are you in UK I don't I don't get it right for example if you can register if you have global lines then you can let's stay a company in UAE and pay like 9% corporate tax so that's what I do my patients are all in UK so I can't and my my employer will be UK hospitals I have no way of getting it out okay okay thank you nothing nothing yeah on that thank you let's say let's say yes yeah thanks for it was a wonderful session thank you very much I like your idea when you said that you should if it's not possible for me to change our tax presidency at least you can invest from my daughters needs my I have a 23 year old daughter who's earning the same but if I transfer if I want to invest such large amount transferring money to her name will be an issue right then we are tax implications that will consider as her income was it okay will I be able to transfer the money to her name yeah you can so it's called an India you can gift to your relatives right so that's not a problem at all so literally you can give your money to from your HDFC account to your daughter yours is already tax money there is no tax that will be sort of exploited from her more right so blood blood relatives like the the earth that's comes under gifting right so you can gift it to your daughter not a problem but there is no limit on that gift I don't think so CS can confirm but according to me there is no limit okay another thing to say that 250k USD is it for your limit or one time per year limit per member pan card right so for example if you have if your daughter is in let's say she already has an account in UA so she can transfer 250k from her account in India and then you can transfer from 250k from your account in India to UA okay so and last question about the great points you talked about the hard wallet so yes is there any way to procure the hard wallet I mean how do you put it on Amazon Amazon you can buy okay so it's called as Mano Ledger X okay and will you be sharing your email ID if you need to have some queries yes I'll do that on the group guys I'll take like one minute break okay so I have to put like something out right so I'll just give me like a minute I'll just be quick all right he gets I'm back so panel okay so panel mayang shikha so no yes anyone there okay anyone can ask if you are there okay I'll go from mayang command you're there hi actually yes so first of all a big thank you to you for these four weekends really an insightful session yes so my question is around the property stuff you have been telling us so say I'm a small ticket investor in a city like Gurudan or a metropolitan and basically I am from Gurudan, modern border in Gurudan, living in my family so I have that benefit I am living in my family but we are looking to invest we are still at a say 42 50 lap of a family income say pre-tax and I am looking at properties in Gurudan, it's highly inflated everybody knows but as you mentioned we can go to a to city or to city we can you know look out for some smaller cities where we can you know do that but then again flipping properties or getting generating any rental returns is difficult rental is good at a place like Gurudan right but not at a place in a tier to city right so how can a small ticket investor like me scout for a good property because we have limited information and then there are builders making full out of retailers every day and just connected to this so you give an example like in Dubai you water property at 1600 the dumpster BSM and then somebody was selling at twice the rate so same happens in Gurudan also so in that case like there's this market in Gurudan where we see if dlf says we are selling this size of property save or 1cr and even if it's worth 60 or 70 lakhs m3 and more any other build-up will come up and say that we will sell it for 1.1 or 1.2 or maybe the same amount so everybody is trying to jack up the prices so how as a small ticket investor I can scout for a good property like how can I save myself basically see honestly like don't engage in markets which are corrupt now India unfortunately is a highly corrupt market to begin with if you start to engage with builders right in India high ticket builders right it becomes even more challenging my now the question that you have asked it necessitates a very elaborate response or not the right forum but very quickly what I'll explain is that go to markets in India which are not dominated by builders right so that's where you can make money otherwise you'll not make money if you're buying it from like you know corrupt builders and a daily go to go you will never get a good deal right from them okay it's like really bad Gurudan is not the place to buy properties you'll buy really high inflated prices Gurudan grew really fast it is maturing because of dilly right so dilly people massive influx very high property prices a lot of rich guys I have friends right I mean who have like who lives in like friends call me owning like 100 crore bungalows and whatnot making a yield of 1% okay so like ancestral properties and all that right so like the bottom line being that because the property prices were so inflated in dilly people move to Gurudan now what's the thesis on Gurudan right there is no longdom thesis there right I mean it's concrete jungle yeah there's no boy cost of laying is way too high right in Gurudan right so I would say that go to like livable locations the rule number one of buying properties that you buy property in an area where you would you yourself would like to live okay so every property that I own I love it because I myself would want to spend time on that property right so if you if that is not happening that's like step one of not buying a property okay so another question is that you gave that roadmap of stages of health right so if I talk about the stage one is it based on a single person's income or a household income like how do we track it yeah household income yes okay okay thank you yeah uh shekha harish uh thank you for the fantastic session I follow you anyways my first point I'm sorry if I'm a screener and if you've covered screeners uh because even to analyze talks you kind of first need to shortlist so you've covered them I just need to go through oh no so you don't need to shortlist talk that's my point right I mean there are 6000 stocks how will you shortlist them right so I mean okay fine I tell you a screener now you're able to bring down your 6000 stocks let's say um 100 now we are are you going to spend like another five hours analyzing those 100 stocks so none is probably you know you don't need to become a research analyst the point is that anyways that info is going to reach to you right one way or the other if you are reading newspaper if you are reading like basic stuff on Twitter someone someone will come and say that you know okay then Nvidia looks like great so then the decision that you need to make is that whether or not you should be Nvidia should be adding Nvidia right now or not okay and that's the decision point the decision point is not how you screen Nvidia okay okay about it uh secondly uh do you see uh any US currency or Indian currency or mixed up currencies being uh uh going back to gold standards in the foreseeable future it's not happening so unless you have very powerful governments that will never happen because money printing is free money for the president prime minister well I would give up on that power right it's very difficult to take back power from people right so sorry power from leaders right so that will not happen unless you become like a frecar right or something that's it's not what happened right so in not any time soon okay and my third last question would be uh do you how do you see Nasdaq US top market going beyond Trump from probably it's the last term for him is it still yeah it's very good right so I mean I think uh US see I mean US genuinely has firepower right it's not as if that they are just bluffing right I mean their customer base is very strong they have the spending power they have reserve currency status those are extremely privileged powers right and for a foreseeable future US will be very strong force okay so it's not as if that US is a weak economy do not believe in that okay irrespective of what is happening whatever is happening in the US US still remains a very strong economy right has up now okay thank you for the fantastic sessions thank you Rish hi actually the sessions was very helpful thanks a lot for that so I started investing in shop market from last year yeah I made some mistakes but I learned some few things from you I'll try to implement that so I have few questions I mean actually I'm a software engineer in a product based company yeah a few company RS use I'm like like a 40% more than 40% last session you told that and it's better to keep like I don't 10% or something like that yeah uh interviews mean something like a most you know still is still all 40% is at once I mean not so see rotate right so it's not selling selling means that you sold and went away okay rotating means that you sold something at 100 rupees and immediately you rotated that money into the market into some other assets okay so it's not as if that you're making like some grave mistake or in one day NASDAQ will try is by like 50% and you'll miss all the rally or nothing of that sort will happen right so just rotate within similar companies right so where for example if you have RSC use from amazon this by like Microsoft also google also whatever like NASDAQ also all that right yeah got it okay and I explained future also I'm in albegetting may if the quarter will be getting uh the stocks to be wasted actually so uh so you keep on doing that so you keep on playing that game and uh one more question I have so monicry explain about smr like in the index we need to follow that was very helpful so can you follow the same one bitcoin also went to end so bitcoin is very volatile so you don't apply that bitcoin was differently so I'll not you know bring it up on this chat right now and maybe I'll write a note or something right yeah yeah we're not to went to end the person is uh I wanted to invest right now you can buy a little bit right so maybe like build 20% of the positions that you eventually want to build 20 30% it's good not a problem okay one last question yeah so I mean actually recently bought a flat when I took a loan and I'll try to currently in the e-mails so my question to is I mean how much are Sundays or another particular should be should be in real estate uh depends on a lot of things right so how big is your overall portfolio what rent are you getting cash flow etc so again I mean I don't want to touch too much real estate because then I'll give like premature advice and you will take it as the face value and you will get logged into something like so I'll not I'll refrain from commenting actually you don't 60 50 uh uh raise to let 60% equity and 40% to other one so that's the one person I wanted to invest in some other real estate so that's the reason I got this question uh see it depends on the quality of real estate that you're getting right I mean for example if you're able to find a real estate is a financing game real estate is not really like anything else right for example in Dubai real estate works wonderfully well because you can potentially buy properties which I give generating seven and a half percent yield and you're paying five and a half percent VMI yeah yeah it's net positive right so there is you can buy infinite such properties okay so as long as you have 20% down payment so I keep on looking I mean I study like maybe hundred properties every 15 days right on in Dubai right so I keep on looking right and out of like one thousand properties I'll scout I'll find one viable okay so which will meet my criteria right so it's it's a long process managed it will come with experience so it's not just like 60 40 or something of that it's about more money you invest in something the more clarity you'll get right so initially when I bought properties I made a lot of mistakes so I don't want you guys to make it so I don't want to give like premature at least it's yeah and one thing regarding community so how much till how much time you can access the community is that uh one year suppose that I don't know like I mean you're on your own it's a if you go on can can we pay for it in the community access yeah I haven't thought like I mean honestly one year at a time is more than enough right um honestly like uh but like after that you will be in good shape to do it on your own but if you see value then you just join again or something right so that's okay thanks a lot good okay content yeah yeah yeah yeah actually so related to this community anyways after one year we can again join the youtube community right so that's there I mean why you worry about like after one year one year maybe one year after I'll stop like you know stock investing only like who knows like I mean one year I don't think that would happen okay so so my my first question is on China so for for China we should just play on indices right no individual stock investing and can you you mentioned I think three indices to hang sing uh and two others I missed can you just mention those one was there on my excel spread sheet so I'll send that to you okay okay third was large cap ETF so it was I share China large cap ETF okay okay that's true investor yeah it should be there on west sure uh then uh another question is on hard wallet you said that we can get it on amazon and during the sessions you happen to mention that in Delhi in Palika bazaar you can go and transfer Bitcoin but is that even legal in India or anything that is not legal is is anything that is not illegal is legal it's so I don't know if any rule that prevents people from going to Palika bazaar and doing P2P investing on Bitcoin so yeah that's what the definition of legality is let's say in like India a lot of things are gray area right so this is gray area yeah okay uh then I know that you always say that buying real estate in metrosities you are not really very far from I'm from Pune and uh we have seen that typically in the core city areas the property rates never fall it's just a demand supply because Pune is I mean a lot of people migrate to Pune so the property is always in demand so if we know or if we have a confidence that uh the the demand would continue then we can still go and buy safe flats in those areas so that you know see property prices do not fall anywhere right I mean it's very rare locations are there where property prices fall the question is always about property price appreciation and the yield now if the yield makes sense for example if you buy a one crore property in Pune means that you whatever right and today you can buy it at one crore and today you can rent it at four lakhs that flat it's fine it's not a problem right but if you are finding such deals great my hypothesis is that you will not find it that's the problem okay uh and my last question is on tax law harvesting so uh for tax law harvesting is there any duration I mean between which you have to I mean once you sell can you immediately buy or you have to buy next day because then yeah buy next day okay sure I think that's it and thanks a lot for my next question thank you thank you okay uh solution yes actually thank for the session so I had two questions on this on this understood stocks uh a taxing uh it's same as the listed stocks in India or when we sell leafy wise by something from internet I don't see it gets listed when we sell it what how's the access to that uh please double check it you're asking me see a level questions guys so when you know as sometimes I might misspeak on this so this is like I'm a broad guy right I'm not like I don't uh I don't have an expertise in finance in in taxation right so I have an expertise in finance central okay so just take just read it on and credit just check with their team so they will be able to give you correct information on this okay I got one more question uh for this by real estate if you don't have a credit history in the why will the banks use loans no uh 99% of the times they will not you need to be a cash buyer right and it kind of makes sense to be a cash buyer the reason is that and you should only get into the why real estate or international real estate as an Indian if you have money to finance that entire property what is the minimum ticket size I would say 800,000 dirams which is approximately 1.8 CR so if you have 1.8 CR to invest then only touch the why properties as of today as an Indian tax resident if you're a Dubai tax resident it's a different story okay thank you all yeah Ankita hi actually my question is around multi-vacals so I was just applying all those your teachings on pvr i-nox so I see that it was a good but the it was is beyonding per earning per share it's in negative so the only so we invest in this talk with this speculation that people will not stop watching movies is that it no so people haven't stopped watching movies therefore their revenues are still 6.5 thousand crore they are monopoly there is no other comparator to pvr i-nox tell me a comparator to be where i-nox okay it's a luxury segment rich people only can afford to watch movies now right i mean those old days are over when you know like average people used to go to movie theaters it's only rich people game that you go park your car at 100 rupees an hour crap right so like when you're paying like 100 rupees for walking then you're going eating 500 rupees popcorn and then you're buying like a movie ticket of 350 so it's like rich people's game the rich people's facility right so when it's okay so from that angle so as long as you are generating revenues they will figure out a way to make profit from rich people okay but now you have told me that pvr is a very good stock but how do we figure it out you don't need to that's the point right i mean your job is not stock analysis your job is intelligent consumption of investment information right so otherwise you'll go mad right i mean this is not your profession it's like not it's like saying that he tell me how to create like statistics okay so now that's a job of a statistician that they will present data in front of you you have to absorb it got it what it okay thank you so much cool all right uh Sandra Ravi first thing uh actually thanks a lot really appreciate the session uh and my question is that few years back the insurance product were not taxed on maturity in india but i think over three years back the government changed its rule but there was a lot of view for you in the market you know and a lot of stats were being presented and uh kind of given that i'm not a very financially knowledgeable person didn't want to kind of lose that right so as a part of diversification i invested in u-lips okay so i have paid i think around three or four installments are paid and around two three are remaining so what do you think should i re-well then just your your take see government money is scam money okay so the more you invest in government money the more easy you make it for them the less money you will make okay government is one of the most inefficient organizations out there in anything okay if you ask me to build go a tourism i can make it better than thailand not kidding okay in a year's time okay why because i have now's inside i can do it i can practically you know apply those things but no one will take my view if you ask government to handle money they are dead weight okay so like a monkey can invest money better than government okay so on that right so the moment you start trusting the government that they will take your money invest through l i c and all that stuff the moment the number one rule of investing is do not give money to government okay as long as you're doing that you are already taking a loss okay of inefficiency so that's how it goes so don't invest in u-lips you will is so bad right so but this one do it so this was like private i c s here signature i mean see it's pension fund right so pension fund you deploy for retirement planning correct and yes and from that angle it's a very low growth product so it doesn't make sense why you do touch it if you're doing it via l i c an insurance product you'll have then it's pure government right so i mean don't do that as well i had done few two i c s here and few two s d f c so just don't know it even hdfc i c i c i banking products don't buy because they will charge you a very high commissions and there is honestly no alpha on those products from a growth perspective so these are not growth at all the only thing banks are good for are banking service credit debit cards because you have no other option b-fds from time to time that's it okay there is no other product you should buy from a bank you think i should re-ball with them after paying around half of the installments and maybe if it is not making sense or stick with it to be honest like i mean i cannot help you rectify the problem if you have bought it wrong right so it's a tough conversation for me to have but i generally would advise people not to enter there right i mean now you have entered now you have to do the revaluation right i mean then a lot more complications come in i would generally not advise you to enter wrongly like honestly i don't have like you know good anything good to say right or there okay yeah yeah hi action so just i want advice from your side so i have around 35 lakhs of money spare money in terms of the it's a OD loan kind of okay so right now i am a saltee person working in the mnc also i have no liability right now so but i have a OD loan of 30 lakhs so which is unusual i totally so on the interest rate of 12.5 percent so can i get some income from that amount or should i invest somewhere or what's your take on that part okay so totally unedited see i i don't know like because i do not play this game right what you're doing is that you're doing leveraged finance yeah leveraged finance is done on asset classes where the downside is very limited right so for example if you are doing leveraged finance in terms of buying real estate it kind of makes sense but if you're doing leveraged finance and doing something else then you are highly speculative and you're a gambler tendency you are right so i cannot i do not have any advice for you right on that right so there's not my area of expertise right so you have to talk to a professional gambler right so i mean that's the right bit right from that angle okay i didn't mean to offend right but this is how it is right and people who gamble in the stock market by taking loans plans to know so so so so did i want to say so i have not taken for this for the to invest in the stock market and all i said i have no liability i'm doing my job okay so no you shouldn't that but that is the spare from the last one year with me that amount so so i have taken as a backup plan so not in a mind key i will invest in the stock market on that 12.5 i'm not paying it's a OD it's a OD when i i will use then i will pay right no there is no interest rate i'm paying on it it's a celred OD plan to complicate for me to understand one so i don't know like and if you're paying went for 12.5 so basically i'm paying nothing i'm paying nothing right now if the person using it one like then i will pay interest on one like rupees one like 12.5 right yeah so paying 12.5 interest does not make sense okay so you should not do that okay okay 12.5 interest is way too high it means that if you're borrowing money then you have to generate like at least 14% that's almost market return it doesn't make sense right yeah if there is no need don't do it the only reason why you should be taking a loan is if you're getting to buy really distressed assets for example if there is a 20 20 covid crash 2008 crash makes sense or the second scenario when you should be taking a loan is that you're getting really cheap rate of interest okay otherwise there is no reason to take loans okay got it thank you danish rushikish yeah so yeah i just i want to say that thank you very much for the source and for the earnings yeah thank you to say danish be the yeah hi actually i have two questions the first is related to the us index funds as edf currently the only criteria i do is you are using the low expense ratio but any other criteria to be considered because you have vanguard so the likes of many edf's so how do you shortlist so etf you just go by expense ratio because etf's are safe right so it's not as if that blackrock etf is going to go like you know bankrupt or something of that sort so that that doesn't really happen also expense ratio just token buy all right and second question is so i'm a UK tax resident and back in 2022 at about some us stocks at a good price actually a great price amazon aimed at google etc but back then i had used eto roe which has capital gains applicable or now in the uk we have something called as a stocks and shares i-sir which means for any investment up to 20k gbp we don't have to pay any capital gains tax in the future so and it's kind of time sensitive right now some of my question is now still i'm sitting on let's say a decent game so would it be a good arbitrage strategy to be selling my etoro stocks and then buying the same under because right of the market is corrected for example google to buy and other type the the i-sir comes make sense yeah you should do that okay thanks thanks no problem okay so jith yes actually thank you so much so this action reference to you suggesting that you can gradually upgrade from index funds to cloud stocks to meet cash to small cash so i have been investing in the stocks for about 8-9 years and but primarily it has been to the pms so one of the pms is that i have it basically charges 5% on the profit that's 5% of the profit yeah so do you think that's good enough or do you think i should see yeah see my problem with pms is that for example if you consider some of the most celebrated pms fund managers they are absolute horrid okay and like in terms of their performance now if a pms fund manager is not performing you should give them zero lee why because they are charging 2% of your eum it's absolute crying i don't know how like you know government allows this bullshit to persist right that someone charges you 2% then then destroys 10% of your wealth and you are like you know sort of re-engaging with them next year right so it's like i'm actually absolute magnet right i don't know about the performance of the pms right but honestly the slack that you should give on pms guys should be close to zero if the market that year is performing at 15% and if your pms guy cannot generate 20% pull off the funds okay which ridiculous because that's the simple point right you cannot expect people to pay 2% aum and do not read the market by even 5% it's right so that's the way you need to analyze it it sounds harsh but what this is how it is right so yeah super second question actually i would be investing in little bit in the direct stocks and but i was like primarily to the pms so they started withdrawing with the some of the pms so do you think i should again restart from the from the index funds and yes in India the market is so scammy that it's much better to invest in index funds slash mutual funds compared to pms pms are structurally bad products in India because most of the fund managers are incompetent people okay that's the simple way i will tell you why are they incompetent because they do not even travel the world their only job is to market their fund and collect money that's it right so that's the only thing that they are focused on they are not even passionate about investing right so for example if you're asking to speak about investing and give me a stage to speak for 10 hours i can speak 10 hours straight okay many one i just can't even do that right so it's just like bad i don't want to say more right it will get me in trouble but this is where we are right that pms if you clear regulations you are able to study your pms there is no focus on performance right when it comes to pms say etc so just generally avoid it right that's what i would say so now yes also when there are talks about recession in the u.s and layoffs and job cuts and all that so at that time how can we save other investments and what's your point of view is there anything like people are sometimes scared of the budget please please watch my video today right so that's literally on this topic oh haven't seen it i thought it wasn't a budget i should have been released so please watch it it will give you a lot of clarity okay thank you all right mc yes so good evening upset thank you for the course it is really amazing yeah so my question was like how do you procure like information like you know you have been ahead of the China investing curve pretty much predicted so many other things in the market it may fall in you for a very long time so where do you procure information from oh i speak with a lot of people right for example i have exposure to a tyland right so because i was buying thigh properties i got in touch with a lot of people from china who have invested in tyland i get to speak with them so my primary source of information is very raw that i get to speak with people get a front-end view i am in ua so i get to speak with a lot of like fund managers here real estate agents real estate developers so it kind of gives me like a sense go a real estate i like you know there is like literally no one to speak with so because i live there as i get like my understanding so i limit my area of expertise so my area of expertise is like four five key areas right so i just try to play well in that area right so i think speaking with people really opens up a lot of useful information okay and just to follow up on that so i just i'm about to finish my cfa so i want to do this like a full-time thing so do you think is it good to like procure like a bloomberg for myself or something do you know see bloomberg is a research terminal right so i mean you have to work with some research equity research firm right to begin start your career do that right i mean i think starting out your career as an are is not a bad option right it puts you ahead in the curve right and then subsequently try to move to hedge funds right so i mean that is where you will learn a lot of stuff right that is like blue chip kind of career right for cfs okay and one more thing but where do you analyze your u.s. stocks like that's greener for Indian stocks it's where do you analyze u.s. stock so a lot of data right pie charts is there zaks not com is there Yahoo finances there so that will give you raw information and then publicity they're simply used okay thank you yeah content basil yeah so so one more question I'll show this it's about multibagos so basically see suppose we hold multibagos for a long time maybe typical patterns that we are we might use for selling the stocks might not apply to multibagos because we are really expecting them to grow multi-fold so how to apply the logic in terms of selling multibagos same exactly right so if they go into a downtrend you sell some of it if they are in an uptrend then you keep your investments alive you ride the wave so multibagos also behave exactly in the same fashion that any other stock works right so it's just that that you have to ride the wave for a very long period of time and do not get enticed sell to early right that's the trick okay okay and offer china index it has given a massive run-up recently right I mean probably 35% or so so it's a good time to enter into the index right now it is it is it is on a breakout zone so you can still enter on a problem okay sure thanks yep basil danish I can go yeah hi action so just want to clarify on one thing I mean maybe because you have that experience if if you're investing from I mean being an Indian resident any way of you know kind of taking that leverage I mean say loans in the way and then investing the real estate is that possible very difficult man so I mean if you do not have a credit history in the Middle East why would a bank in Middle East give you any sensible borrowing rates right right okay go ahead and one more thing related to the US stock investing thing which you have of course highlighted along is there a concept of I'm sure that probably you might have looked at it but is there a concept of inheritance text which kind of kicks in because it could be pretty high and it could be a kind of see it's mostly applicable to US citizens not for you right so very your tax domicile is where your inheritance inheritance tax comes into the equation so it might not be applicable to you okay okay thank you thanks thank you actually for your wonderful insight you're really awesome action I enjoyed really enjoyed your course so what I want to understand is that so for US stocks you you recommended vested so what about the Chinese stocks what how can I you can buy Chinese stocks from listed what a problem okay you can also use the same for Chinese stocks okay thank you no round you're evening actually the just want to know one thing through this course do we get an access to the YouTube membership community as well yes so I post the same stuff on WhatsApp for the group okay so if I'm already in existing YouTube community that's what I can so I can wave up that and I can join through the link which we're providing right thank you part of the watch yeah I actually I actually you did mention about you know when you change the taxes and see in the future you can book the profits and then you pay 0% tax especially if you're you pay tax as a rent right for X number of days you need so but if you book the profits bring that money back into India or you become a Indian citizen again does that you know has some tax of it again you know okay but why don't then people do it because then only one 20 days you need to stay I don't know whatever is the X number of days no so it's not easy you know I mean for example you have to come set up a company pay some setup cost so you can only do it if your portfolio size is decent which you mentioned would be upwards of 3CR 3 to 5CR currency yeah so I mean you know this game only makes sense if you're investing more than 3 to 5CR 3CR plus in US stocks thank you so yes hi action thank you so much for conducting the course and running the community it was really informative but I still feel like I'm heavily relying you know on your your commentary or notification with respect to peaking of the stocks so I was just wondering like when when you plan to move your when you will move your portfolio to US like 95% when you'll be done with that will you stop commenting on Indian stocks and if you do that then how do we pick up the stocks that's legitimate like I even I have not heard about it so if I withdraw like 90% of my money from India will I stop commenting on US stocks in Indian stocks probably yes okay so there is no incentive I mean honestly like I genuinely teach whatever I'm doing in the market so okay so yeah it's not a gimmick or anything right but if I genuinely move like 85% of my money I would not speak much about Indian stocks so yeah and in that case how do we select or pick up the stocks oh see good thing is that I will at least run the communities for one year right on Indian stocks right so then you know with time you will get clarity you will get at least one year of practice and after one year one year one year I mean where we are right so likely maybe I'll stop investing in India I don't know let's see yeah okay thank you so much yeah they were in turn out yeah hi thank you for the sorry they were yeah yeah thank you for the session really nice one and also look forward to meeting you in Dubai wanted to ask you a quick question right actually two questions so one is basically when you move from India to Dubai you had from your videos etc I understand that you have a zero the account where you used to trade in India right did you have to change so you would ideally would have changed it to an NRE account right but a lot of brokers don't allow you to essentially hold a brokerage account like for example grow doesn't allow you to hold a brokerage account as an NRE so I'm just trying to understand in India yeah so I'm just trying to understand was it an easy process yes so the idea is for example my wife is an Indian tax resident I'm a UA tax resident that's the trick okay understood okay fine the second question then is around so in UAE when you're investing in US do you still use your vested account that you have changed to UA tax resident or do you use some other I use right now why oh right so I'm building one platform via that I'll use IBKR and I will use vested it's all three I'll be using but you don't look at it or one stuff you haven't looked at it or I don't use it I might do it in the future okay cool thank you very much pranav adalash hi thank you for everything so I wanted to understand I worked in an IT company I'm a stock market I mean they stock my phone 2020 so I want to understand in what scenario you think I should become a full-time trader and leave my current job I made more than much it is the last year but this time okay so unless you have like three crores plus don't leave your job okay that's okay that's my answer okay all right yeah abhila is barataj yeah yeah yeah yeah okay so actually I was investing through this small case the sectorial thing by paying some subscription pay everything so the mid cap small cap everything so I was in profit last year like more than 50 60 percent I think currently my profit is zero now so should I exit from it it I did the selling class right so many it has got nothing to do with how much profit loss you are in see fund managers will not generate an alpha for you right if the market is doing well you will make money with them if the market is not doing well you will lose money with them either way they will make their commissions you are not going to benefit immensely so unless you learn to take the pain of analyzing stocks yourself you will never structurally make money that's the bottom line yeah people get pissed off when I say this but this is a fact right I mean like it or leave it I don't care right so that's how it goes right so like this as a general rule does don't trust fund managers right I mean you are trusting them at least have the vision to withdraw money when time comes okay sure okay thanks so the previous mission that you answered I didn't get the part of where your wife is an Indian citizen how does that help so basically what happens is that if I am a attacks resident of UA then I can't buy direct stocks in India so I will buy it through my wife's account because she is an Indian tax resident if I have to do like that 20 percent Indian investing and also your mentioned about setting up a firm if you want to you know change the attacks residency to UA what do you mean by setting up a firm so you register a company in UA which becomes a trading company and if you have like let's say a five seven CR capital you capitalize it and you trade via that and pay 9 percent corporate tax so the maximum tax applicable for you is 9 percent right because you require like tax residency here so under what visa will you get it so this is called as freelance trading visa right so you can do this right yeah hi actually do we have to use paid version for perplexity I'm using free version in front of you okay okay thank you yeah so are you sure can and they get these research reports or they recommend short term long term they have those three tabs right so on best it are you able to do that because I plan to get on vested yeah but do you do I see don't trust like research report research reports are as good as analysts right so for example I must talk analyst now if you trust my version cool right now you guess might be an analyst you might be an analyst whom would you trust right so just understand the logic and eventually you have to make decisions based on your analysis yeah you guess yeah hi accept first of all a great course I think I'm investing in the markets since 2010 so the point is I made a substantial portion I'm having the CGR of around around 30 percent in this market because obviously due to the time duration I do really understand I'm in the IT industry and really do understand where the products will be that is where the tech is going to take a jump right I just had I just wanted to pick your brain on the 2.0 high now here the service oriented industry and it will remain so most of the company that service oriented I don't think so they're going to go into products because that is not going to happen I don't see that happen and the IT industry right now is down the doldrums let me put it like this right do you think it is a good time to get in and stay put because when the product will come out service industry definitely will benefit either individuals do you think it's a fair ask considering yes because I know I know I might be maybe making you look too far ahead but no so I mean see it's speculative number one right your viewpoint might be different than mine that does not make either of us incorrect right because this is speculative wet right my viewpoint is that India had a service advantage because our human capital was cheap right now that human capital is not required in AI 2.0 that's the problem right so therefore I am not bullish on ID anymore in India right so therefore I'm completely out right so because the primary advantage of InfraSys TCS etc was that this was service delivery model now if entire coding can be automated through LLMs what exactly will like a tier 3 engineering college student would do one part is the LLMs can give you the base code yeah right but still it would need to be tweaked that is I've been I've been working in industry long enough to know that everything does not work as it is supposed to be there will be the human element obviously it will come down right now if I'm if I'm deploying 100 people I might be deploying 70 60 people that's given so let me let me just stop you there so that's a shrinkage of 40% so this is a degrowth industry right so I would invest in other jobs might might come up and I'll just follow it up yeah I just heard a money is basically setting up the largest data center in the Amnagar and he's going to work on the LLM model that is what he's investing in he's tied up with Nvidia to buy a lot of the accepts to do all that stuff so I see some organization since India is a from a language perspective we have so many languages and other stuff it can be a good growth story to pick up but again on the service side ifs will still be shipped from US or China so see Jamnagar's LLM story kind of makes sense for products that require localization so that is the play there makes sense 100% agree but who would take the profits would it be the IT companies or would it be like I don't know geotech if they launch geotech okay so it's geotech right it's not like traditional IT companies that exist today they are screwed okay so that's how I think okay now because of you yourself as saying that you know what the workforce is going to sharing from 100 to 60 that's the problem right that the industry now is in a de-growth the moment industry goes into a de-growth it means that the P of infuses will not be 25 it will be 10 which means that there will be 50 percent correction on stock so it gives me like more bullishness right on my thesis that okay put zero money on IT right now so I don't know and if you um juxtaposed compared to NASDAQ right so the natural question comes that if I have 100 dollars to invest why will I put it in Indian IT why not NASDAQ there is no rational argument I take both sides I'm investing in NASDAQ through and there's an ICICIF there's a direct fund I'm investing but they don't take lumps on I want to purchase but that's the problem but yeah just thinking the IT next would be a good pick at this time thanks I don't know like I mean I honestly like speculative you can be right I can be right I I don't know like but this the risk seems high for me right so when I'm not touching it right so thanks maybe I'll touch it I'll like six months I don't know like so let's see okay okay thanks guys it was a pleasure really enjoyed like interacting with all of you I will stay in touch via whatsapp I'll also share my email ID etc in case you want to reach out thank you so much for giving your time but I really appreciate it thank you thank you appreciate appreciate thank you everyone okay take care and best of luck and if you need anything I'm always available right happy to help right and let me know okay thank you take care