Transcript for: Live Session VI - Portfolio building Part 2 -
Transcription Date: 2025-03-30 02:21:55.556015
==================================================

 It is still a significant amount. I don't really need that money. How should I let it be there? That is the question. So let me start. Okay. Fairly valued or it's still in the down trend. I did not see this portfolio. I have two portfolios. So should I sell this like? So honestly like I'll try to give like an answer, right? It might be indirect answer. So let me get up. Glad you talked about Tata Motors. So Tata Motors is here. I had not invested one rupee in Tata Motors ever and I was not a big advocate of the phone. Okay. And if you actually study the stock is fell to like 620 in February of 25. Study it in February of 15. It was almost at the same price. So in 10 years nothing has happened on the stock. Okay. This was an artificial rally, right? This entire thing and it is corrected by this. Okay. Now if you bought this stock in a down trend. For example, what is a down trend? This is a down trend. Okay. You made a money. If you bought this stock in an up trend depending on which up trend you bought, right? You might have lost money. Okay. So it's speculated, right? People will show you stories that you know how to get Tata Motors went from here to here like crazy. True, but where did you buy? Right? That's the point. Unless you bought it here, right? Unless you have the confidence to buy the down trend on a stock. For example, Google right now is on a down trend. Do you have the guts to buy it? Okay. That's a more pertinent question to ask. Okay. Now if you have the guts to buy like Tata Motors, IRFC, JP Power, etc, etc. On a down trend, then it's fine. Okay. That's problem one. Problem two is that the moment first panic happens. You will sell it and run away. Right? For example, Google green thing in Madhmiyothi long, right? And then like it's a multi trillion dollar company with a lot of moat going for it, etc. Right? Meta. Right? People were like after my life when I bought Meta at a 50% discount, it went down by another 15% and then was meh. Right? I mean, it's not that bad. It's not that bad. It's not that bad. I don't know. It's a fine 20, 22. Right? Then it went up 150%. Okay. After that point is that don't buy stocks that you can't buy on a down trend. Okay. Only buy on a down trend. That's it. Right? So if you're buying individual stocks, okay. But my question is like, I'm not going to buy it now. But since I have it at a very low low value, should I let that be or should I? It's still at a profit. It's still at a it doesn't matter. Right? So this is a major mistake that you guys make. So tomorrow we have a class on selling. So I'll cover this there. Okay. But it is irrelevant. How much profit or loss you have on the stock right now? Today, where you can deploy your capital well is the question. Okay. So tomorrow we'll cover this. Okay. But I hope that this gave you like kind of an answer. Okay. Awesome. Guys. So let's start like portfolio building a little bit. Right? And I wanted to cover like these 11, 16, 15, 16 points on portfolio building. And see, here, number one point is that don't be a greedy person. Okay. Now what is the meaning of a greedy person? Right? If for example, if you are making 15% profits, then I want like 20% profits. If I make like 20% profits, I mean like 99% profits. So as I know, I'll see right? I mean, be like a reasonable investor to begin with, set realistic expectation because greedy people will get screwed one way or the other. Okay. So this is like a very important point that I can tell you. Right? The goal of investing should be clear to you. What is the goal of your investing? The goal, for example, many people enter stock markets with a very unrealistic expectation that I mean, no, gris, only stock market we will do. No, any cheese. Okay. Unless you have like crazy amount of capital, you cannot survive on stock market income. It's useless. I'm telling you point of blank. Don't do stock market for that. Stock market is a tool for preserving your wealth. Is it easy to preserve your wealth? Yes. As long as you are sensible, as long as you can invest sensibly. Now what is the meaning of investing sensibly that you buy good quality assets, you buy it at a reasonable price. What we have been speaking, okay, two things. Good quality assets go through that 1718 point checklist. Okay. Good price. I hope you are getting a sense that if you are buying down trend, most likely, you will not struggle. If you are chasing growth, right? If you are running, you will get to go back. I mean, that's the problem. Right? So don't run after like a moving bus train, all that stuff. Right? So there is no point in doing that. Okay. Now why do people run after like when markets are running? Because they lack knowledge. Number two, they are greedy. Okay. So that's it. Okay. So that's the reason why it's okay. I'm on the bus. Every minute, we are making only 5% and market is now giving 15%. So we should now invest in the market. Are you guys by gold? Yes. We are greedy. Okay. So like that's a sign that you have to improve with the human. Okay. So that's it. Okay. So why? Because gold has given five, you know, in the last five years, gold has given like 20% 25% run up. And therefore, we will also buy gold. That's greed. Okay. That's no, there's no header like to this analysis. Like if you think about it, okay. You are buying like extremely bullish sentiments. Okay. So number one, that's like basic things. If this is like, you know, an issue, then you need to sort yourself out mentally first. Go to a pass, now go to like, you know, whatever, like inner engineering and whatever you want to do, do that. Okay. And then come back, right? And then go through this 1617 points. Okay. So yeah. Okay. So number one, right from an investing lens, what you need to think about is that you have to divide your portfolio into three growth, defense, uh, cash flows. Okay. So at least these three earlier on in the course, I had shown you like a table, right? That was a more complicated table, right? But then the basic decision that you need to make in terms of portfolio planning is that first figure out what your net net worth is. For example, let's say right now your net worth is, let's say, once a year. Okay. This includes your house ancestral property property that your parents will give you whatever money you have like quite FD. This is that milamilu K one crore. Okay. Now you need to decide that. Okay. I'm young. I'm 30 years old. How much money should I invest in growth? I would say that at least everyone should grow their money at like the base target rate of growth should be between 12 to 14 percent. This is the rate at which your net worth should grow around 12 percent. Okay. Now to do that, right? You have to dedicate at least 60, 70 percent of the money for growth. Okay. Um, okay. Now what about defense defenses like slower growth instruments, right? But it's still at least protect your portfolio. So this can be split between this and this. This is not a, you know, structured thing that I can tell you that, okay, invest like 70 percent per growth, 30 percent for defense 80, 20, all that stuff. That's your call. You have to figure it out. But what I will simply tell you is that if you have cash flow assets, then it gives you a lot of comfort. For example, every FD, I don't do much. Okay. If the market is good in a investible shape, I'll invest all my money. Okay. I would hardly do like any FD. Okay. But two, three good practices that have really helped me. One is cash flow, right? That for example, owning income generating assets. For example, it could be a book. It could be a apartment. It could be a house where I can live, where I save rent. So these are cash flow oriented assets. For example, if I'm getting a cash flow of let's say 50,000 a month, almost guaranteed or if I'm saving 50,000 as rent, what does this allow me to do? Right? It allows me to buy risky assets or growth assets on a downtrend. That's the first mental problem at sorts for me. Okay. The second key, mental problem at sorts for me is that it gives me a feeling of safety. Okay. This is again, a very important aspect. The second practice that I would encourage you to have is that see, just lock away like maybe two years of your expenses. Decide commented earlier into like an FD or a safe instrument and forget about making returns on it. Okay. So for example, if you're early expenses, 12 lakhs and if you can lock away 24 lakhs, what does this allow you? It gives you iteration money. Iteration money means that you can run experiments for the next two years finding a better job, doing a business, whatever it is. And it gives you that mental piece. Okay. Now no amount of return can compensate for these two things. Okay. So therefore I always encourage people to sort these two things whenever the situation is cozy. Okay. A natural question comes that we don't have the money to buy real estate. When should we start thinking about real estate, etc, etc. Now this is a topic in itself and a one hour chat, which I can't do right now. But I'll just try to give you like maybe a few seconds. Number one, I would personally never buy in a metro, right. It makes no sense. It's high risk proposition. Unless you're getting a distress deal. Okay. Even if I were to work in Bangalore Mumbai, there's that stuff. I would still not buy a house there. Okay. It's bloated. It's unsustainable. Right. So a lot of downside is there. Okay. You're not really buying a land. All that stuff. So I would not do that. Okay. And number two, if I would start thinking about real estate realistically, when I have like once here, okay, before that, I'll not think about once here. Okay. First, I'll build at least like 50 lakhs of my liquid money and all that, right. And emergency money, liquid money. So at the very least, I should have like 50 lakhs, 60 lakhs portfolio to begin with. Only then I will think about real estate. Okay. Number three, right. There are exceptions. For example, if I get like a distress deal, if my parents are supporting me in terms of buying the house, all that stuff. If my husband, wife are also earning. So maybe their money can go into EMI's. I'll just do growth investing with my money. All those are exceptional circumstances. I cannot comment on that. Okay. So that you will have to think. Okay. But realistically, if you have like 50, 60 lakhs, then you can start thinking about money. Don't even think. Sorry. If you have 50, 60 lakhs, that's the starting point of thinking of a house, right. Before that, I'll not even think. Okay. If I'm buying my first house, I would pretty much buy a cash flow property. Okay. Now what is the meaning of cash flow property? Apartment primarily, right. I mean, if I don't have a very high ticket, okay. A ready property that allows me to move in quickly, right. And save some rent, etc. Dubai is a very good market. Goa is a very good market. So both are very good markets. Okay. For that, if you overpay for real estate, you will never make money on it. Okay. So that's a simple point. It's a useless investment if you're overpaying for real estate. Okay. So these are like basics. I'll tell you. Okay. So then we move to stocks. Okay. So now that's absolute basic of portfolio planning. Yes. And also don't put money in like bad stuff like EPF, PPF and all that. Okay. So this is sorted. This is sorted. Is your cash flow sorted? This is the third thing that you need to think of. Fourth is your asset quality good, right. Whatever you are buying. For example, if you're buying a house, is the asset quality of that apartment good enough. Okay. If you're buying a villa, is the asset quality good? Will you be able to liquidate it? Okay. So liquidation means selling. Okay. For example, many people get excited. Ki Vijay Ki Riyadh Ji is buying like, you know, um, even for Dukam Ptni, like Dho Duru Pewali company and all that stuff. But he has massive liquidation challenges. There are times when those stocks get logged and you can't exit those stocks. Okay. So that should not happen on publicly listed companies on unlisted. It is fine. Okay. So these four five things are there is the price of the asset fair. I help you understand some basics. We'll study more tomorrow. Okay. You should definitely sell something or some part of your portfolio if things look over valued. Okay. I'm not saying that sell entire. For example, you invested one lakh in small cap. It became three lakh and you are seeing it. Ki are, okay, this is over valued. Okay. How much would you withdraw? Maybe like 20, 30 percent book, some profit. Why? Why book some profit to begin with? The reason is very simple that this creates a real cushion. Okay. It increases your longevity in the market. Right. The more investment options you have in hand, the more confidence you have that you can go around and invest in these four, five different asset classes because you are winning. You will only win when you book real profits. Otherwise, if you don't win in reality, then nothing will happen. Okay. Buy undervalued. If something looks undervalued, buy it. Right. For example, Google. Right now, is it undervalued according to me? Yes. Okay. So it's getting to like a very fair valuation. I would say you can definitely consider buying it. Okay. Now, does it mean that you sell your house and buy Google? No. Okay. How much can you buy? Jitya is radaohta krilo. Right. I mean, and never more than like 5 percent of your entire portfolio. Okay. So maybe you buy like, you know, whatever your intended amount is 1, 2 percent, you buy it now. Wait. Okay. Then you buy more later. Okay. SIP versus bulk. Okay. See. SIP. No one has put a gun to your head saying that you have to invest your money every month. Okay. If the charts are telling you to invest, invest. If the charts are not telling you to invest, do not invest. Okay. There is no such automated system. The more you try to automate stock investing, the more useless it gets. Okay. That pretty much defeats the goal of investing. If you step back and see that what is the goal of investing? Well, the goal of investing is to grow money. Okay. Your money will only grow if you are buying things which are undervalued versus overvalued. Okay. And sell things when they are overvalued. You will say that, but no, if I look at the last 20 or history, SIP has always worked. Yeah. In the country, history has become a little unnecessary. Right. You have to invest in the orange, the orange, the orange, the tax, all that sort of that nonsense. Like history is useful for gaining some perspective so that you can predict the future. Don't confuse that. Okay. Last 20 years SIP has given like, you know, X percent CHAR. So it will forever continue to give it. No. That thing has already been done and invested. Okay. So be pessimistic. It's not as if the someone has put a gun to your head. If you find investible opportunities, then only get into the stock market. Okay. And the very basic rule of getting into any stock is the following. Okay. Or any the moment you put money in the stock market, we have to understand risk reward ratio. Okay. Now, for example, if you are going to FDs, what is the risk reward? The risk is close to zero. Okay. And you are making after tax, 4%, 5%, 5% after tax you are making. Okay. Now, if you are going at least to equity, you should at least have an upside of 10%, right? Even on a large cap. If you are going to a small cap, you should at least have a 20% upside. Right. So this is like the absolute basic that you should know that if you are buying any equity and you are not even making like a 10% CHAR on it, what's the point of buying it? Okay. So there is no point in terms of buying it. Okay. If you are buying a small cap equity, there should at least be an upside of 20%, otherwise what's the point of buying it? Okay. There's no upside to buying that. So that is the point. Okay. So, okay. Just a second. Okay. So for example, okay. Here, if you are trying to buy like mid cap index, you're at least expecting a 20% CHAR from this point. Now, when will you get 20% CHAR in a fairly market or a fair valued? So index is something that we always buy at fair value. Okay. Index is not something that we buy in an overvalued zone. Okay. Majority of our money should be invested in index at somewhat fair valuation. Okay. If you are unable to do valuation, then you should at least buy time correction or price correction. What is a good area for index buying? There should be a 20% correction on index. For example, if you take a look at semi-gunner index, S-O-X-X. Okay. Now, here is S-O-X-X. Okay. How much has it corrected from the top? Has it corrected by roughly 28% from the top? Should you go and buy it? You have a lot of economics and finance and finance. I don't have any problem with that. Now, why does that work? Because you're buying a 30% correction on an index in a growth category. Okay. What will happen is that even if the market goes sideways or this index goes sideways, it will at least come back to its previous peak. Okay. Even if it is going in a sideways fashion. So you can still, like if the stock falls from 100 to 70 or an index fall from 100 to 70, that's a 30% correction. If it goes back to 100, what is your gain? It's like almost a 35% percent gain. Okay. Because it's going from 70 as the base. Okay. So the point is that if you're buying, if your entry point is great on a stock or an asset, then automatically it's great. Right. For example, real estate. If you don't understand it much, what is like that one piece of analysis that you can do? For example, let's say that you're buying a villa in a society. Okay. You should go around ask, right? I think we how much did you buy a villa for someone with a two crore? Someone will say 2.3 megadees. So one will say 2.5. Now, if you are getting at 1.8, that same villa. Should you buy it? Yes. Okay. Why? Because it's under one. You're buying your entry point is great. And 80, 90% if your investment is sorted, if your entry point is great. Because trust me, when it comes to investing, the biggest roadblock is FOMO. Okay. There are so many options and everyone is marketing so many options, right? Right? Right from the way real estate to go, real estate to like Gulgaon real estate or to like XYZ stock. Everyone is telling you like great story. So you will be excited about everything. It's a big deal. It's a big deal. It's a big deal. It's a big deal. So what you cannot do that, right? Just buy things which are at a good entry point. Okay. Very important. Last point, right? On this, that when you're creating a portfolio, you must understand, in fact, two points, right? We should understand the exit. Okay. For example, if I'm buying SOX right now, what is my exit? It's very simple. Right? I will sell whatever I'm buying, at least some profit I'll book here. And this is my Rajas, why will I book it? Because this is the resistance level, right? For this index, right? So the resistance level is here. The moment it touches this resistance, I will book some of my profit. How much? That's affordable. I'm just present, go low, 100% go low, 20% go low, whatever it is that you want to. Okay. On that note, let me talk about Vajaj Finance. Okay. So for example, here is Vajaj Finance. Okay. Now this is an uptrend on Vajaj Finance. Can you see it? Okay. So if you're looking at it on a daily candle, right? The up move has been how much? From here to here, it has given a 43% run up. Okay. If you are, if you're aggregated this position here, at these touch points, and this is the only zone where I buy stocks, right? I mean, as I've been telling you that, if I get to buy this range, I'll keep on buying. I'll buy here also. Okay. I'll buy here also. I'll buy here also. I'll buy here also. Then you will say, for example, you bought it in like 2024, here, I'll buy right here, I'll buy and all that stuff. So this becomes like my pivot point. So one could argue that, okay, this 40% 43% run up, I have made in how many years, in two years. Okay. Am I happy with it? Very, very happy. Right? If you were to actually follow me, you would have also made like 20% run up on this CAGR on this. Is this bad? Absolutely not. Why? Because the market has gone down 15%. What is your alpha? It's 58%. Okay. So the alpha is like crazy on this, right? Now here should you book profits? Yes. Why? Because this is an uptrend. This is touching this graph. Okay. Now, if it falls, I'll add more. How much profit? How much should I book profits here? Not everything, right? Maybe like 20% 25% go all that stuff. Okay. But the point is some profit booking should be done. And therefore, SIPs do not, like, you know, strike any chord with me, right? Because I could decry as I'm a chart, right? You are seeing it right in front of you. That okay, you know what? Okay. This is hitting the bottom. And but up as I be going to be there, right? Because date me right on that makes no sense to me. Okay. So this is like the simple bottom line on this, right? I hope this point is clear. Okay. So these are like basics of portfolio building. That's the last point. It is the concept of laddering. Okay. Ladering simply means that you will go through a journey of investing, right? The journey of investing means that see, first step, you will have to understand index. You will have to understand how to buy index. What is an uptrend that you do not buy on an uptrend? You basically sell on an uptrend. You buy on a down trend or a channel breakdown. Right? If you just simply do this on index, only it's fine. Not a problem. Okay. Second stage, you start adding large cap stocks. For example, Google, if you're a Google purpose, Google, okay. Third step, you start adding small and mid cap stocks. Fourth step, you start adding and here I mean, you have to cover international also. Okay. Fourth step is you start learning a little bit about hedging. Okay. Then you finally move to like leveraged investing. Okay. So these are four or five steps that you have to go through, but it will take you like I mean, for example, if you're starting here in 2025, you will be here. If you're diligently doing investing by 2030 or not before that, okay. So it will take you four or five years because you need to have made real profits here. Okay. For you to move to this stage. Okay. Now, leverage trades are extremely complicated. I mean, if you get that time someday, then I'll probably explain it, but you don't need to get there. You will move in a organized fashion only step by step. You cannot jump the steps. Okay. If you're never bought, got into the habit of selling on an uptrend, buying on a down trend, doing trend analysis, keeping 15, 20 things on a checklist. And it's not as if you have to invest like crazy amount of time doing all this, right? I mean, you'll get some commentary from me. You go and analyze it on your own. It will take you 10 minutes, like literally in a day to do this. Okay. If you are feeling, if we about some stocks, for example, I taught a motor, I have what it should I buy it or should I not buy it. What should you be doing? Well, you go, right? You look at data motors. Number one, you, what do you do? You go and do fundamental analysis. Okay. Business analysis, what I taught. Okay. Number two, what should you be doing? Right. So, uh, here, you have the clue. Right. So, for example, let's do data motors, right? And what does, okay? Okay. So, what should you be doing? Right. Now the stock has started to consolidate. Okay. And this is a down trend. Now, if you trust the stock, what is, is this like a time to sell or is this like a time to add? So, what is this? This is our down trend. Okay. If the stock is fundamentally good, what should you do? You should add not sell. Okay. But it has to pass the first filter, those 1718 points filter. If that is not passing, then you don't do all this. Okay. Then you don't play around with this stock. Okay. Uh, I got a technical trade for example, this is called as trend reversal. Okay. So, for example, if this trend is reversed, right? Then sometimes you will buy it here, then they take a little bit of run up exit. So, in sub-chakkar, we need to point out because we are not like traders. We are investors. Okay. Um, we will only enter into an asset if you have the ability to hold it 15, 20% down. For example, if you buy Google now, what do you think is going to happen on Google? Maybe it will correct by another 15, 20%, but will you, but then will you struggle too much if holding Google at like minus, uh, at minus 15? No, because now the thing is that now Google is minus 40% from the top. Which is awesome. Right. So, like, I mean, unless it's like completely getting demolished in the next three years, just max out your five percent five percent and stay put. Okay. So it's free money there. Okay. From that angle. Okay. So I hope that this point is clear to everyone. Right. Okay. Now, let me just quickly take you through all the remaining points. Okay. So these are like some, uh, positions. Okay. Core and non-core portfolio. Okay. So this is again an important concept. Core portfolio means that, hey, generally, I will buy these type of stocks. For example, we did that business analysis. Uh, India portfolio, for example, in my case, what I typically do is, and tomorrow, I'll show you my portfolio also, at least like my kuch kuch kuch, you know, the Khadungaapko. So India portfolio, what do I do? Right. Almost 70% of my portfolio is finance, right. Banks, EMCs, insurance, etc. I have like healthcare, like health stocks, maybe like 15, 20%, right. And then 10% will be some random stocks. Okay. Some limited small cap companies. That's it. Okay. US, it's 100% tech. Okay. I have zero overlap between my US portfolio and India portfolio. I don't have TCA, SIN, POSA, and all that stuff. I'd rather buy like Google at like 25, 30% discount. Okay. So this is my core portfolio. Now does it mean that if some opportunities coming in the market, uh, for swing trading or something of that sort, then I will not do it. No, I will do it. Right. But that will be non-core. Right. Now what is the meaning of non-core? Now for this, you need to understand the concept of turn around and cyclical stocks. Now if you go and study like, and I'm just using it as an example, I'm not doing any swing trades as of now, right, because the market itself is done. Right. So for example, if you consider like this, okay. So, in fact, our motto is not a good example. Let's say coal India. Okay. Okay. So here, what you can see is that this is basically a cyclical stock. Okay. So you can see that this was one cycle. Okay. Then this was another cycle. Okay. So it goes like it has the sine wave pattern. Okay. So now, and these are like some mini cycles. Right. So basically, what you do is that you understand the nature of the stock and trade it accordingly. Okay. So here, you have to be right. I mean, for example, if you're seeing that it will usually form like this type of a cup pattern. Right. So what do you do? Like you buy it in the aggregation zone. So this is aggregation zone, this part. Okay. So cup me, right. I mean, this is the cup. Right. So you buy it here at the bottom of the saucer. Okay. So you do this. Okay. This is like, you have to do it. Right. So I would do like this is a clear cup. So I'll buy it here. Okay. This is a clear cup. So I'll buy it here. Okay. Wherever I can make this saucer thing. Okay. So this is a clear cup. I'll buy it here. Okay. So I would rather buy like these because this is typically how the stock operates. Everyone is understanding. Okay. Will I do anything with this here? No, this is not like my core stock. I don't care. Okay. About this. Okay. If I get this cup type of a pattern only then I will buy it. Okay. For example, let me show you Hindustan Unilever. Okay. Now what is that typical pattern on Hindustan Unilever? If you go and if you analyze what you will see is that this black line is called as 200 day moving average line. Okay. Now 200 day average moving line moving average line means what? It indicates that the it indicates the last it indicates that this is the specific price on the last 200 day as per the last 200 day averages. So this is the last one you're trading price. Okay. What you will typically see is that if H.E.L falls below this 200 day moving average line here it fell. Okay. Here it fell. Here it fell. Here it fell. Here it fell. Here it is. Okay. You buy Hindustan Unilever stock anytime below its 200 day moving average line and you can then flip it and you see. Okay. So this is most likely to happen. Right. That it will go back up or whatever. Right. And whenever it moves way past its 200 moving average line you sell. So this is the nature of the stock. This is the nature of cyclical stocks. So in fact even Nestle may it should be similar. Right. So Nestle India. So here again if we go look at P ratio. It is 200 DMA. Okay. This should be here. Okay. So this is your 200 day moving average line again exactly same way. Okay. Here if you buy 200 day moving average line this is 200 DMA. This is broken down. This is again broken down again broken down again broken down again broken down again broken down. Okay. So you have never taken a loss on something like Nestle India. If you buy it below 200 day moving average line. So should you add H.E.L and Nestle India right now? Maybe I don't know like it depends on your portfolio. Right. And what game do you want to play? Okay. But it's not like I mean that does not make any sense. Okay. Now these are called as consistent compounders. Okay. So this here we understand 200 day moving average concept. Okay. Turn around stocks. Here you need to understand the reason for fall. Okay. Classic case study would be something like let's say HDFC AMC. Okay. So for example if you go and study HDFC AMC and take a look at the price. Okay. So what you will notice is that see between like here to here. Okay. The stock fell quite a lot. Right. In fact the peak was here. Right. 3500 and here in the bottom was 1700. So there was a 50% correction from here to here. Okay. In fact even if you look at it because this is like 2019. But if you look at it from here. So this was again 3300 to this. So this was a complete downtrend. Okay. And this corrected to 1500. Okay. So 50% fall and happen in this zone from 2021 and to 2022. Now what does HDFC AMC does? AUM business. Okay. You know HDFC AMC takes that right. It builds a bucket right and it charges a commission 2% of whatever. Okay. And this becomes its revenues. Okay. So like what happened between 2021 and 2022. The markets fell. Okay. So as a result people stopped doing SIPs right and even the holdings of HDFC AMC they would have shrunk inside. They would have become like this. Why? Because the market itself corrected. So for example what is this AUM made up of? It is made up of IDZ stock. Whatever like you know HUL etc etc stocks that they have. So this total assets under their management. The price of this also corrected. No. That's what market correction means. Okay. What was happening to its revenues profit in this zone 2021, 2022. So you'll see that okay. Just look at 2021, 2022. Okay. Nothing else. Profits were revenues were all time high. Okay. Profits were all time high. Yet the stock went through a 50% price correction. Okay. And this was a great turnaround stock. It meets all our 17, 18 criteria that it's a low operating profit margin business. Very high time deals with premiumization. Good turnaround story. Good brand, clean brand, opportunities for vertical horizontal integration. They can launch a new fund anytime. All that stuff. And we bought it and it went through a turnaround. So there are good quality companies which we are which will go through a turnaround. Right. What about PVR right now? Okay. So for example if we go and study PVR. Okay. Now let's look at revenues profits. Okay. Okay. All time high revenues. 6127. 6107. What about profits? So profits are improving. Right. Now it's okay. Why did it become like 750 crore in net losses in 2021 because PVR and IONOX merged. Okay. Now when merger happens there are a lot of dead weight. But dhiri dhiri karke it's getting into a turnaround zone. Every on that me. Okay. Now dhiri dhiri karke upar bada jai ka right. I mean I don't know like I mean so ETS is improving all that stuff. Now whenever it happens right. I don't know when it will happen. Right. And how much has the stock corrected by? So from it speak. It is corrected by almost 60%. Right. Now is this like a good stock bad stock you make a call right whether it is good stock or bad stock I will not say. But to cut the long story short this is a turn around stock. This you cannot judge it to be similar to Asian pains or HUL or Nestle. Okay. Nestle HUL. Agarabagira you buy it. The only mistake that you will make on those stocks is that you are not buying any type of price correction time correction 200 DM. On these type of stocks the mistake that you will make is number one you're over invested. If HUL we are investing 5% HDFC AMC HDFC life we are investing 5% of our portfolio. What is the maximum we should invest in PVR? 2.5. That's it. Okay. Now dhiri dhiri karke upar bada jai ka portfolio with a bada jai right. Now even if you bought it like one two years back let it. Ho rao ka forti wasan noxan jillodola right. So it's not that big a deal right. After two three years four years it's still if it still remains a monopoly business it will be fine. So what about like PVR right. Do you think that it's a monopoly business or what like or do you think that it will survive in the next three five years? Why not. Anyone thinks that it will not survive. I'm happy to get I'm happy to get like their viewpoint. Nope. Okay. Netflix it will survive. Yeah. Karnataka government has restricted ticket price. Will this I don't know like I mean they will now by that logic like I mean a government will say that okay we are going to open like theaters for people like as freebies or whatever. So we're not investing any business then right. So let's leave that aside right. Hopefully free markets will survive because by that logic we go to socialist or a communist regime right where all modes of production is controlled by the government right. So if that happens then stock market is done we can't do anything. People are still not going to movies then how is PVR generating like six thousand gross of revenues right. So that's like an interesting problem to solve then right. So numbers tell a difference. So we might believe that people are not going right. Now they'll say that no people will not buy like 500 to P. P. See people are buying what can I do right. I mean if people are buying their buying there's nothing that I can do about that right. So they are selling they are making that kind of revenues right. So beat through popcorn beat through like Pepsi or beat through movie tickets or whatever it is they are generating revenues right. I mean if people were not going to the movies how would they sell popcorns and make revenues right. They are doing something which is allowing them to make more revenues and if the business stays monopoly then of course it will come back up to its previous price okay. So that's the bottom line these are called as turn around stocks okay. So I'll just quickly cover this right. Consistent amount is I'm not ready to turn around I'm not ready to cyclical we have seen right and tech stocks growth stocks. Now here the trick is that you figure out which specific segment intake will grow right because not entire tech might grow. Now if you do not know how to study this right it's okay that you can just simply go and buy NASDAQ right and it's okay you can go and simply buy M7 businesses. There is a business called ASML right. So I mean which is a monopoly business which provides like prefabs to semiconductor companies in China, US etc. That's a monopoly business there is no other business similar to ASML right. Broadcom is again a monopoly business right. All these are good solid companies that you could consider but you need to understand that tech behind it right. And if you don't have the time patients or inclination to study like tech companies then leave it. India tech is not tech just leave it right. I mean completely like I'm in my advice would be to get out of Indian tech that is nowhere close right to innovation right. I mean we if you still want to better just simply bet it on like Nifty IT index right and that itself might give growth but individual tech companies in India they are very hard to understand okay. Yeah just leave it okay value stocks. So this is like Muinish Pabri type of stocks. So Muinish Pabri is a legendary investor what he does is that he buys companies which are very very cheap. He'll buy it at 3 4 p 5 p and then wait for 10 years 15 years 20 years for P you to go to like 20 okay and then suddenly there is some kind of a manual sale okay. But his starting point is that he will buy really cheap companies. He'll not ever touch firms like Google Amazon. Can you make money doing that type of investing? Maybe I don't know how to do it so I can't teach you that okay. It's really difficult to complicate it right. So I would stay away right. I would play the game that I understand right. So for me capital rotation etc on good companies businesses that I keep hearing about etc is okay. I mean that's a game that I can play right. So you pick whichever game you want to play right. So that's the idea there okay. Okay so these are value stocks cyclical stocks you have figured out turnaround consistent compounder. 2x5x stocks are something that I will speak tomorrow when I talk a little bit about unlisted stocks so I will cover it there okay. So I'll not touch it as of now okay. Leap of faith stocks now what a leap of faith stocks now. Leap of faith stocks are very simple right so leap of faith simply means Google okay. So for example right now its business is getting disrupted. And no amount of analysis no amount of reading on publicity about Google's business model will convince you that it's going to survive or not survive okay. It will not tell you right. 5 analysts will say that okay Google will survive 5 analysts will say that no it will not survive. You have to make a call whether or not you need to take a leap of faith with Google or not okay. So geo is exactly a leap of faith stock right. Some people will say it has no business model it has not this it has not by you know jungle color yeah right I mean one taro whatever right and got like Modi G2 become a model there right. So do you not think that they will be able to build like a you know finance business right. So of course they are going to build it right. Regulation is the number one barrier right when it comes to like finance stocks or banks or regulations whatever. So they are going to do like exceptionally well when it comes to like geo right. So you have to have that leap of faith on these type of stocks is there a way to analyze it no okay. I myself said when I bought geo there is no business model yet okay but geo understands geo finance understands that finance gives great money they will go into everything right from mutual fund maybe like payments bank maybe like wealth management etc. And you just have to understand how India works and billionaire businesses will survive and thrive right. So just leave it at that. So there will be category of stocks. Important point for you to understand is that whatever stocks for example audit your portfolio whatever stocks you have right you should be able to plug them in one of these things and write a thesis around it okay. That why are you buying like something like a consistent compounder stock because it is available at a 200 dm why are you buying an index well you're buying it because it is in a downtrend why are you buying a leap of faith because geo is backing it why are you buying a cylindrical stock because it is forming this type of a pattern and you're buying this bottom and this is typically how it operates is it guaranteed that you'll make money on this no but typically this is how it operates and you're putting 5% of your capital on an individual stock max therefore you're doing it okay. So I hope that this is clear right this is where we stop right and I hope that this gave you like an understanding of building basics of portfolio tomorrow we have two classes one we will speak about when to sell your stocks right and do a little bit more technicals right and second we will speak about us stocks right so I will teach some fundamentals there and international investing and yeah hopefully this was useful right and you've got a sense of how to invest right and got some clarity around it cool so I'll take some questions right and we will start from chat right and then we will do it how to catch multivagger you can't okay so there is no header like to catching multivagger okay. It has youtube google cloud yes I mean technically like but you got my sentiment right would you recommend to do this analysis for existing portfolio yes recordings it's on wisdom as website right on your just log in through the email through which you have bought the course and you should be able to do it so when I explained about small case it's like similar to mutual funds there is no difference so wherever you find more comfort you can do that okay. During downtrend what should the stop loss percentage be if I'm doing swing trading see if 5% capital is your stop loss okay so you if you're buying extremely volatile thing right then you invest like maybe depending on your point of entry but for example if you're buying google right now you can invest like maybe 50% 60% capital now of your intended amount right and then wait okay will you be covering lead lag indicators no there is no I'm not teaching technical so I'm just teaching you technical from an investing point so pure technicals are useless right and it's over analyzing what about concept of compounding getting disrupted there's no compounding if the you know if you're not investing see you buy when charts tell you to buy that's how every big investor mutual fund guy is everyone operator it's only retail investors who keep on doing like compounding magic okay so which is which does not make any sense there is always a chance of channel breakdown and therefore you have like 20% capital but channel typically gets broken if the entire market is getting broken and you stay put no I'm not saying that you will never make a noctional loss you will make a noctional in fact you will even make like a real loss and it's okay right but as a system if you're doing this right what I'm telling you then generally your portfolio will win okay nifty bank index to get better clarity on one buying now is good because I again do the same analysis what I was doing for small gap to a small gap mid gap on 15 as that you will see that on a five year basis private bank ETF is undervalued 10 year basis that is undervalued on a channel trading basis it is undervalued so from every parameter it is undervalued right segment for example if one is buying auto sector like a hero but just how much max to invest in a particular segment I would say 20% like but see for example I'm like 70% finance okay so yeah does 200 apply to it is based on consistent compounded type of stocks for example where the business is very clear it's a monop it's a fairly stable business right for example paints business now is stable right so it will follow consistent compounding your coffee can portfolio right if coffee can person would have bought it on to and below to want it dma is portfolio would not have been at the loss but if you buy it whatever levels your portfolio will suffer okay when do you classify the market crash crash means minus 20% right correction would be so there are three types of correction minor major and deep okay so minor correction five seven percent can happen anytime right major means anything above 10% to 18% that's major deep means above 20% because that's the start of a bear run okay I have let's say one cross so tomorrow I'll answer this De-limitation of a de-limitation of the stock market what do you mean by de-limitation I don't know UI path I'm not buying as of now right I sold it a long time back should we do roll over while being in a big loss or should we take brave from stock market upon expiry of futures should we do roll over I don't trade in futures yes I'll teach you 50 day moving average one to day tomorrow okay that's good for buying and selling okay within stock portfolio any percentage recommendation between different types no so you buy opportunities that's it okay so for example you're buying consistent compounders at good good level spite okay so for example right now there is an opportunity honestly huel etc so you buy it not a problem okay I own a lLP should I invest from my personal account or open a trading account in the name of the company I do I have not done it myself right I mean I would I think lLP would be more more sensible right because the corporate tax are generally low but since I'm not done it I'll advise you to check with us here okay good candidate for swing trading no it's very volatile assets volatile assets you do not typically swing trade stocks like Tesla or Microsoft Tesla I don't even touch right it's very person specific stocks so there is no point Microsoft Kavasi Karna and say the way I do it for Google okay how you decided so I decided on a three to five year basis ten year basis so that was my contingent point okay so it's not swing trading it's more about capital rotation right as long as your capital rotating it's good for you okay or at least you'll be able to better absorb my commentary right reads I will not invest because in India as a you know half of the real estate is black money and reads will just be value your property right so there's just too much problem okay so don't invest in reads in India Jupiter wagon I have no idea I exited 20% last week should I enter again now you buy it at support so if it is at support you buy it okay if I were to start building portfolio how would I narrow down on bouquet of stocks to analyze you don't start with stocks you simply start with index okay so you start with index you buy Nasdaq SOX maybe like some top stocks that you're aware of HUL Nestle Google Microsoft so this is where you start yeah no private bank ETF any ETF index you can buy more that's not an issue because ETF is a collection of different stocks what's the percentage between what's the percentage between if t 15 private bank and I didn't get the questions on the revision of look sub-a-seat I have no idea there doesn't impact like to be honest in couples formed you're already the opportunity to come back again but do you look only lost the opportunity no you did not lose the opportunity right I mean it's consolidating sideways right so you are not losing the opportunity yeah Google that's that's okay that's it's only 25 30% done and moreover like you can check all my buy-in sales so in the US market I can give buy-in sales calls right because I'm legally registered in UA it as an advisor so there I can issue like buy-in sales recommendations you can see my entire portfolio how much profit loss I am where the market is what I bought last so we have created like an entire dashboard okay tax resident of Singapore and it's you FI it makes sense to trade from it you have not much no it would not make any sense to trade from it you have in India you should trade from Singapore okay LLP should I am as if this I've answered yeah gold price chart just Google it now how did you build your multi did you start with huge purpose so I actually guys I built a company I sold it to buy juice right so that's how I made like my initial few crots right I was a consultant at BCG I was a consultant at Halberg so they were paying well to begin with right so I had a good corporate job then I built a company I sold it to buy juice then I created two more companies after that which were bootstrapped they were generating like good revenues profit then by that time a corpus investment was big then YouTube happened all that stuff so that also helped right so yeah tax calculate on profit book just simply go on console by zero and they will tell you like entire thing okay comment on mandan bank okay let me comment on it tomorrow do you plan to share the app platform for buying us yeah I'll do that tomorrow can you explain with that old individual private banks or sell some private banks individual private banks and private bank ETF are both at a good buying level and logically so right reason being that if otek mindera bank ETF see are not undervalued then why would private bank be undervalued right good source of learning just avoid whatever you're worried about all these channels okay they are horrid okay so you will become dumb or you don't use it just use publicity okay okay so charts are buying pattern I didn't get it okay volume and share price directly can we also discuss Chinese super king under unlisted okay share your excel this I'll do this I'll do it on Monday usually okay starting us crash how do you narrow down book it this I've answered right with cash bank or a G1 for 4 5 C I mean it's like bank cycle right so you have to understand it in segment so tomorrow I'll cover this right so investment thesis and selling is the first class and then US talk investing is the evening class right so again like the the fundamentals remain the same okay yeah so the fundamentals remain the same what I have taught you right tomorrow I'll comment I'll do like to teach a little bit about wallet I need 2x5 x stocks unlisted stocks so say clear or jiv and small finance I'll use it as an example okay tomorrow okay okay so Ganya Kanchan I'm going to show you hey so my question is more than the portfolio investments split right like let's say currently I have a 20 lakh portfolio and I'm fully invested Indian market in that I have a 50% and index multiple indexes and other are in 5 to 6 stocks so which makes my stock investment of each stock more than 10 to 50% yes and how do I balance it and since I am fully invested now right and I have a capacity of investing let's say 50 to 60,000 every month going forward as well as a salary employee so how do I do that and how many stocks in total I can have it in a portfolio is there like something minimum stocks if your portfolio is more than 10 lakhs should be 20 okay so if you're buying individual stocks you should not have a concentrated portfolio right otherwise you start panicking right even good companies collapse many a times right so there's no point in for example I trust HDFC bank a lot right not because I'm like you know like I love being their customer I hate it right but I mean I know that they are crooks and they're going to make great money so like to me as an shareholder it kind of makes sense but bottom line being that even there my investment is not more than 5% of my portfolio okay very rarely I will hit like 5% on any stock so Google I feel comfortable I'll do that right but like I'm in majority others I will not right even HDFC I'll not so what I would simply say is that see if you're over invested in some stocks two things you can do one is that you immediately cut position and bring it into similar stocks for example let's say that you have 10% holding on HDFC then you sell half of your HDFC portfolio tomorrow or whenever market opens and you buy some access bank ICI CIA similar themed stocks tomorrow itself okay so that way there is no loss right because it's not as if that only HDFC will go up and access will not go up right or something of that sort okay that's one strategy second strategies that you say that okay not have bought these good stocks I don't want to rotate you don't invest your new money into your existing stocks you just buy like access ICI CIA and you stop investing in HDFC till the time your portfolio kind of starts making more sense right I mean you start seeing like everything equally spread okay and whenever we found that find the opportunity based stock also we should not go beyond these stock limit right 5% right that's a golden rule that's okay greedy okay so no one don't be greedy okay so number one rule go I think okay and last question in capital rotation let's say I'm rotating my capital on index right I am then should I mean is it advisable to have in reinvest in the same or like partially hold it to reinvest in the same like how do I say so you don't you don't need to keep on investing every month right so for example if this this month let's say index has hit the resistance so you sell 20% index you just do an FD for two three months if you get an opportunity to buy the same index after two three months you buy it okay okay all right answer okay so my first question is around the US portfolio so I started building the portfolio in US market through Wested around a couple of years back and I'm almost 75% invested if I consider the country wise diversification that I want to achieve now if I become the part of your community you are just 30% invested and I'm already 75% invested yes how would you recommend how can I map your recommendations to mine okay so to invest yes so see you are at a mature stage in US investing I'm at a nascent stage of my portfolio I'm not much sure I've done all through your advices only so whatever I've built so far so see I'll reveal the reason also right and I hope you guys will understand it as well right see at this like up until last year I was an Indian tax resident so moving money from India to the US was a major pain point right that's one second is that I was still being taxed really high now the reason why I need to invest a lot more in the US market is very simple that access for me is zero right for example if I invest money in Indian stocks short term is 20% for me 12.5% is LTCG if I invest in US stocks short term is zero long term is zero so because of this arbitrage right I'm already like in top 1% investors in the US okay now even like Warren Buffett has to pay taxes in the US because he's not a tax resident of the way okay but if you're an Indian tax resident or sorry if you're a way tax resident investing in the US market taxes was you is zero so can I beat Warren Buffett yes I should I have to be really dumb not to right I mean with this massive tax advantage going my way and small portfolio to manage I have to it's not as if that I'm a genius it is as I'm structured really well right so therefore I'm moving bulk money in the US right it's not as if that when I was giving that advice right off investing like 15 20% for you guys in the US I still stand by it right Indian should have 20 30% exposure to the US stocks now given the things there but if you're a UAE tax resident should you have like maybe 80% exposure to the US over India yes right because of tax that arbitrage more than anything else okay so that was that now more but more importantly I mean how you can copy my trades all that see I don't know your age and I should not ask like emails their age right and that's what the losses are so around 45 so I'm okay do really that so so bottom line being that you know now you would invest for like another 15 20 years so anyway that will like you know sort of balance out it's not a problem on a long term basis second key point is that you can consider adding whatever I'm adding right so for example if you like let's say I'm adding like Google today right hypothetically in certain quantity then you can replicate that right I mean just adjust it as per your portfolio that's two third and most importantly is that I have been quite vocal that US market is overvalued so you need to have like 20 percent cash positions okay so yeah so I mean if you're doing these three things I think your problem kind of gets sorted over time so I probably can map your trades to whatever remaining cash I have to invest in to exactly for example if you're already over invested in Google and don't buy Google right now okay sure my second question is rather I'll explain you this is a little bit of personalized situation which I would explain you and I already have taken that decision but I would just want to know from you whether I did the right thing or wrong thing okay so I invested into small and mid cap through PMS in September 2023 for one and a half years continuously I kept on booking profits so I booked profits of 33 percent over one and a half years now since market started correcting and since small and mid caps were overvalued I took out the entire amount in February 2025 when my portfolio had come down by 20 percent so net net in one half years I had the profit of 14 percent around so maybe a tag of 10 or 11 percent now whatever cash I have I'm planning to invest 50 percent of that into 50 50 and fly it by and 50 percent into China and US markets so does this make sense whatever I did or you would have tackled it differently I don't know like I mean that's obligate for me to like you know say whether that was right or wrong thing to do but I mean good thing is that you booked some real profits that was nice right especially at a time when small mid caps were overvalued then the hindsight it looks great and guys I even I was lucky right I mean I that I was able to exit small mid caps because it looked hyper overvalued I exit it literally exited everything okay so like 100 percent exit okay so which I rarely do right on anything right but I was lucky there right I mean it's also investing is also a factor of luck I cannot say whether that was right move or wrong move but all I can simply say is that hey today like this small cap undervalued no small cap a great asset okay it's like okay I said right I mean so I would not touch it right so I mean unless I'm seeing like a 20 percent upside on something like small and mid caps why would I touch it it doesn't make sense no so I will not do it today right so make decisions for today right I mean don't make decisions for like tomorrow or yesterday yes I am that's all I'll say okay sure and our last request is I have asked these questions earlier as well but for bitcoins please do write some information around ETF and those cash trust and all because all that is pretty confusing so bringing India how to really get an exposure to bitcoins is something which is which I have not been able to solve for past couple of years so I've been investing into bitcoins waste but then that also gives exposure to lots of stocks say Tesla right to strategy right so I just I'm not able to decide whether that's the right thing wrong thing okay okay let me write okay thanks hey actually hi good you need I'll have three questions and one quick request so I'll be like quick so you mentioned 20 percent cash position where you're expanding up trend downtrend and sideways movement right so what's the typical I mean when should we hold that 20 percent cash and when we like when should we go like fully and exhaust that 20 percent no so it has got nothing to do with up trend downtrend you hold 20 percent cash when on a five and 10-year basis the market looks overvalued just for example and as well average C.A.G.R should not be more than 14 percent but right now if you check the C.A.G.R it will be 18 19 percent so it is overvalued right therefore I'm saying so at most you should be 80 percent invested in the markets in the Nasdaq right and keep 20 percent cash that's at most understood we're valued for example like I mean if T looks fairly valued now so it's all in okay so that's okay understood with respect to US markets so right now the way my like so I'm a salaried person so the way my composition is structured unfortunately my saving spot fully is mostly index towards US stocks essentially so right now I mean both Amazon and Google like Amazon is like around 20 percent from peak and Google is like 30 percent from peak downwards so does it make sense to diversify a little bit sell Amazon by Google and then you know have that kind of balance at this point it makes sense right I mean because see any stock you should not be overexposed right that's the idea we get retail investors I mean what why do we care right I mean whether we make money from Amazon or we make money from Google or we make money from XYZ so spread our risks okay third quick question is when you say like book profits like 15 20 percent you have always been saying that that 15 20 percent number where is that number coming from so for example why not like 50 percent booker to try you keep using that money for something else why like 15 20 percent because our high my hypothesis right now is that we'll go into a sideways consolidation which means that we will have that sine wave thing that it will go up go down go up go down it's that's what sideways consolidation means in such a market retaining position is important because if the market goes up what will you sell if you have nothing to say for example if you lower your holdings from 100 units to 50 units and if there's a breakout or up move what will you sell I mean then you will chase the market right so and the urges to not chase the market the urges to build protection in a sideways market right and wait for a down to buy more one another question is like for example with respect to US stocks so it assumes that I for the remaining 10 years I work and live in India so after certain point in time let's say my US portfolio builds to quite some amount and if I bring that money back to India I'll be tax a lot I think US LTC is higher probably I think it's 20 percent LTC for US stocks so is it so are there like so for example let's say if I plan to move to Dubai or any other country so then I can reduce the tax burden right at that point in time like maybe 5 10 is down the line in terms of a long term strategy correct okay one request I have is like you mentioned the type of stocks right poor and then consistent compounders and so on in that excel when you share that if you can provide some examples of the stocks and the strategy like just one for example in consistent compounders you have like follow at 200 DMA broadly just broad ideas and the examples of stuff that would be helpful okay I'll do that okay thanks thank you the via pranesh hello there's not there hello can you hear me yeah I can yes so earlier in your point you earlier in your doc you raised a point about you know you are actually waiting for recession in order to deploy a lot of your money that you actually have saved up so I come across a lot of news I know that you are completely averse to the kind of news that comes in but I'm talking about the US news that you know every day they are either saying that we are in a recession or we are going in a recession very soon so do you think we do you think the US stock market is actually or not US stock market but the US economy is actually in a recession right now or going into a recession right now very soon I mean how right so tomorrow I'll I'll release a video right on this public video right I've been about US recession right so please watch that you'll get mortality but short answer is that US economy is not in a recession right now economists forecast that there is a 20 to 50 percent chance that US economy will go into a recession the last two recessions were 2020 and 2008 right so these were recession periods if you buy stocks in a recession period that's the best time to buy stocks why because you're buying a downtrend okay a massive downtrend right the more you buy the better it is so people make fun and you know like that okay you're buying the dip with the then you buy another dip of the dip and then you buy dip of the dip of the dip of the dip and all that but the point is that it works okay so like it's easy to make one but it's very difficult to make money and people who understand this right I mean if your initial point of acquisition is great then you will make money right I will you run out of capital at some point buying the dips yes that's okay it's not as if that money will not be remade right I mean markets will anyways come up okay my reading is that my reading is that we'll not go into a recession to be honest like not anytime soon but we will test that minus 20 percentish thing we will see a long sideways consolidation that's what I'm betting on okay I hope there is a recession it's more much easier right but it opens up like more investment opportunities but I don't think there will be one okay uh also you know I uh in all your lectures till now you have talked mostly about SMP 500 or basically the index SMP index of of US which is like about the 500 SMP 500 primarily but just like the way we see a nifty uh made cap stout some small cap stout I believe that in US the SMP made cap also at least from the way I have seen okay I know that I'll bring Sarav Mukherjee here but Sarav Mukherjee also says that you know the SMP made cap is much more the companies in them are much more better than let's say the made caps of India they are much more cleaner or something like that so I want to say that now we have invested so much good amount of money in 500 SMP 500 do you also consider SMP made cap to be basically just like the way let's look at it though so SMP 500 is this because I cannot like you know comment on a celebrity fund manager like an column idiot right so like I don't know what it's to say right so for example this is Russell 2000 okay so this is like small cap index in the US okay this is Russell 2000 just I'm not able to see it okay okay so this is Iwn okay so this is Russell 2000 okay now here is SMP 500 right on this blue chart is Russell 2000 okay so let's do the comparison from 2020 SMP 500 which is a lower risk index out performs Russell 2000 in the US okay this is not me saying or Sauramokarji saying or etc etc if you consider like our 10 year basis it still SMP 500 still out performs Russell 2000 okay if you take off 15 year basis SMP 500 still out performs Russell 2000 and here I'm looking at SMP 500 if I add NASDAQ to this okay so let me add NASDAQ okay okay here is NASDAQ now this purple line now it beats SMP 500 also it picks beats small cap index in the US also the entire theory that small cap index in the US out performs like other indices in the US is nonsense okay and anyone who had access to like trading view will tell you in three minutes right with the data right but I don't know like I'm in what to say to that right when people are paying like mad money to like investment advisors and like giving 2 to 2 percent of their portfolio on your key basis for this advisor I don't trust me don't trust anyone just look at the data and why would you invest like in Russell 2000 in general right so specific swing trades are fine but as a general rule you should not be buying like small cap index in the US the reason is that I just showed you data on that okay you also talk about ESMM which is like you know another fabrication company which which is many other companies who are creating iPads or doobel phones they need help from these companies I know that this company comes into let's say how in the US you have those like the 5th and 7 companies in Europe you have granolas under which ASML comes there are also other companies like you know Louis Vuitton some luxury food come under plus so do you suggest any ETF for this or even before suggesting ETF do you look at these companies I mean you have prayer you have talked primarily about individual companies like ASM but not about you know how this feels like a magnetism not feels like and this is a magnificent 7 of Europe European company so do you know so M7 companies in US works very differently because the US does quantitative easing the US Europe for example is a socialist economy right I mean they provide a lot of social benefits compared to the US European is Europe is less capitalist compared to US so they borrow less and they exhibit something called as austerity and as a result European countries companies do not grow that much for example consider no one orders right consider like Louis Vuitton right their growth rate has been slow because of this reason right so this is one right should you buy these companies yes they are value wise now right so for example something like Louis Vuitton is a great value by this young chair I am adding it right if you consider something like no one orders it's 45-50% down from its peak great company right the weight loss drug that they have launched it's it's doing well right so yeah I mean overall it's solid right but you again need to learn how to build positions on that okay my last question is more of an observation in my portfolio I have been investing in US talks for quite some time it's been almost three more than three three and a half years I ended up buying some major companies like for example Amazon when it was at 99 or 110 times at that point of time so now what has happened is that my the amount that I have in my US talks is kind of higher than the amount that I have in my Indian stocks how do I keep on considering I'm in India and doing too much of profit also you don't need to sell your US talks right I mean see imagine this right for example if let's say you become a tax resident of UAE at some stage okay so let's say when you're 50 and let's say that UAE keeps the same rule of 0% capital gains then you come to UAE you become a tax resident here and then you book profits on your US talks you'll pay zero tax so that's these things like so now you're getting my point right I mean you don't need you are a tax resident of India now you will only pay tax when your book capital gains in now right but if you're booking capital gains after 20 years and hypothetically if you're in UAE as a tax resident after 20 years if you find a job or whatever then you don't have to pay any tax so take advantage of that whenever you move here so don't sell it now that's what I'm saying yeah that's all thank you Pranish Kumar yeah hi took a quick question section when you were asked sorry answering a second question 10 rack so more than 10 rack you know having 20 per stocks but I think then the ticket size of each stock goes less and then you know that that impacts the return so how would you take advice around it because my point doesn't so you can buy fractional stocks so you don't have to buy like like in the sense that for example unless you're buying like something like a marf 10 lakhs is a big amount so you know like I mean 50,000 you are putting in every stock also 50,000 up it's dfcv also you can buy so it's not impacting our returns the idea is that it's retail investors should be diversified that's the bottom line with retail investors retail investors can't be concentrated investors we don't have access we have information disadvantage we don't have any information advantage so by the time we act the other last ones to know the hedges diversification okay okay and so you also talked about building patients so I understand everybody will have their own personal journey and attributes around that but what has worked for you in like because of in terms of building patients over time and if you put something I think I think having access to multiple investment asset classes is really important because you'll always feel the urge to invest but if you know about bitcoin if you know about like real estate if you don't want the way real estate if you know what go are real estate if you invest in if you do hedges right and all that right so the idea is that then you will always have something to study right and then possibly like every month you will find something to invest to be honest like so that's the idea okay but if you are only like stuck with stocks then out of desperation you will invest right which is really important thanks um Komal Shika hi actually thank you uh actually I don't have a trading account as of now so I'm planning to open one after we finish this course so my first question is because I'm living in Singapore right now so if I open account here and I'm on a dependent path so do I become eligible for paying taxes on the profits or if I book a profit at all I think you will still qualify as a tax resident of Singapore if I'm not mistaken but you'll have to double check this because the residency means that you're living in that country for x number of days and you're living outside India for more than 120 days right so like a yeah so maximum like in India you're saying for 120 days so I don't think you'll be eligible to pay taxes in India but this is again a CLL question I can't answer this my my my thought process on this is that you are not eligible for paying taxes your husband might be working in Singapore so if he he if he continues to work in Singapore then it kind of makes sense for you to have a count in Singapore right and trade via that because if you bring that money to India then you will have to pay taxes okay my another question is what is the answer this they might be from the DP don't qualify for tax resident if not earning here in Singapore okay so I don't know okay so my another question is what if tomorrow we plan to move to Dubai what happens to the account that I open here that I'm trading I already have invested money in few stocks and everything what do I do do I have to sell and open a new account altogether two options right one is that if possible right you can continue to operate it out of Singapore right because you need a bank account technically please number two is that you ask your bank to move it for example you open it up with xyz banking Singapore right and for in our dbs or whatever and then they would have like operations in Dubai also so you can open the same account with them here and they can potentially transfer your trading account here so like you mentioned to the via that instead of booking or whatever profits they book instead of doing it in India so same goes for me also right instead of booking profits in Singapore in case we move to Dubai I can move it there right you don't need to because as far as I know even Singapore has like 0% capital gains so you would be paying 0% capital gains but again I am not trading out of Singapore I will be opening a company in Singapore soon right so I mean I'll get full clarity then but I don't think that you are again in Singapore you will be paying any taxes right on your US based trading and last question to start with when I open my account how much should I invest how much should you invest start with like at least 30% of your network right if possible right and then take it up to like 60% of your network over time okay any any stock to start with at a early stage index invest google is very good okay Microsoft google these are good to companies to consider now thank you last question I'm sorry last night there was a earthquake in Thailand yeah so my what I was thinking I think it can be a lame question as well but if there is a natural calamity somewhere around the world stocks do tend to fall right so is that no so see I mean stocks are not stocks are valuation driven to be honest like it's just that taking advantage of these type of things the stock whatever like stock operators bring the stock market down okay it's not because of like you know thailand earthquake the stock market fell it's just that because the stock market was already already over valued and there is a earthquake news news will be played out everywhere then you know okay this much amount destroyed the that's time and there was a little bit of correction okay thank you yeah shaka yes yeah so I'm investing basically gambling put my money in altcoins I'm following a thin thin in principle I'm using vinger x tainan corndy cx every each of the exchanges have different altcoins I want to know a structured way of going learning about crypto investing altcoins and I mean I want to double that side considering the market there is newer but I'm not finding something which is structured okay I don't know I can't teach you gambling right I don't myself don't invest in altcoins so I'm an investor I don't need all this jik jik daily you at company prices track carry and all that I mean if google falls like another 15% I'm okay right but an altcoin falls by 15% I don't know what to do with it right so I don't know what altcoins so this is your ticket size is big right for someone who's putting like a 50,000 one like you will put somewhere where it's asymmetry I want to know how I should go about learning stuff this because I don't have so yeah I mean if it despite like my ticket size being big I can just follow like good investment things right why would I encourage you to take like chances it's small tickets right I mean it doesn't make sense right so yeah I would not encourage you to do like altcoin investing and all that there is no structure there it's pure like speculation okay the session and I accept the that she's just want to understand how to draw support lines it will be covering to more technical session I had already sent like a video right where I'd shown you how to do it right but trend lines you go send the trend lines you should but there was something concept with support lines right we know where this is okay yeah so trend lines is resistance and support so trend line means that you're doing a support line and a resistance line right so yeah okay okay yeah just one of the questions so you typically mentioned that small and mid-cap we should expect around 20% return while large cap you should expect around 12 or 12 14% to say similarly what will be the number for nest tech in reverse investing how much I would say between like 12 to 14% in US dollar terms okay okay yeah and the last question in your NRI community which we talked about to cover on the US or other geography also other geographies also so I'll be adding like UAE stock market as well right on that right so I myself am picking building more positions and UAE stocks so I'll cover that right so it's primarily like international investing okay and one last question sorry but PVR we talked about that it's a turnaround story and all but I was also being that this financial the EPS is turning negative again so is there anything which has happened which is in this financial year if you see the TTM number in screener the last column it is showing negative and by good number so is there any bad news there right now so basically like this year has been bad right for everyone right so I mean 2025 the entire reason why Google has corrected by 30% is because the year has been bad right so every company is suffering right so it's not just PVR which is suffering in isolation so is there that shrinkage of corporate balance sheet what is happening and therefore it's a netmying opportunity now thank you okay guys all right I think we are done with questions okay cool awesome I hope you enjoyed this session right so tomorrow I'll see you again right and we will talk about selling class right and MC had a question yes yeah so hi actually good evening yeah so I was following Goodmich Chanda's what is the power value chain what do you say the process of picking a stock they came across this stock called Vartek Vaba so the FI holding on the stock is 18% it's increasing quarter of a quarter and the promoter holding is only 19% it contradicts whatever you have thought so I just wanted to know your opinion on the stock I don't know man I mean like these are all random stocks so like I mean if I'm up to gamble on such stocks I'll rather buy Bitcoin okay it's more stable right so from that angle right and honestly like Bitcoin think about it I mean so for example small cap how much will you make right so let's say 50% here how much has been the last five year returns on Bitcoin a lot okay last three year Bitcoin at least it's like 500 right so yeah making more easier there no and there at least a technology sounds so I will I go around gambling with like really small cap companies which have no monopoly mode right so the just looking at FII holding and DI holding you can't make any hardware like to it right so you can't buy based on that okay thank you cool awesome all right guys it was a pleasure right so I'll see you tomorrow morning right and I hope this was enjoyable right and then tomorrow we'll do selling class first and then the US stocks okay okay bye together