Transcript for: Live Session V - Signs of a Good firm to invest in Part 1 -
Transcription Date: 2025-03-30 02:40:43.860156
==================================================

 Hi everyone. Good morning. Sorry. Hi. It was a couple of minutes late. My mic was not working. Just a little bit. Okay. Okay. Yes. Okay. All right. I hope my audio video is fine. Right. Okay. Awesome. Awesome. All right. So, just wait for like a minute. I was like a minute late to our meeting. My mic was having a little bit of issues. So I had to change the wire and what what. Okay. So, you'll just wait for a minute and then we'll start. I also need to answer like some questions that were sent to me on the slide. Oh, think right. So that I'll do in the evening time. Right. So I'll do that amazing view behind this. So I'm like right now in my house and. So I live in charge of my right and like in Almajaz three. So this is usually where I teach from. Right. So it's a nice place to live in case you guys are in GCC. And if you don't want to spend like crazy money on rent in Dubai. Right. So I own a place in Dubai, but I live in charge and that I always do. Right. So I mean, I don't I never like live in my own house. The first house that I bought is in Goa, right. Which is primarily for me to live. But otherwise I mostly live on rent. Right. So this is like a rented place. For an Husqind by here. Right. So okay. All right. Okay. Thanks. Awesome. So we'll start right hand. Okay. There can be this was already shared on like the WhatsApp group. Okay. The class group that we have created. Right. Okay. So all right. So just to give you like a very quick recap. Right. Where we are in the course. Right. So see, I mean, when you're analyzing stocks or when you're building your portfolio, there are three, four key things that you need to understand. Number one is macro economics. Right. That okay. What are interest rates? What is liquidity? And there was a very important statement that I made last week that liquidity creates fundamentals. It's not the other way around that fundamentals create liquidity. For example, right now you might be hearing that you know what recession, animal, I recession, animal, I write them in Beech's, those all, and all that stuff. Absolute BS. Okay. So all you need to do is track liquidity in the market. If enough, if government decides to print money. No amount of recession, no amount of depression, no amount of XYZ is going to have an impact. A classic case study that you can always refer to is this. Okay. So for example, right. I mean, you just go type in if T 50 right or US. I will never be mappled. Right. So. This was 2020. COVID just pre-COVID 12,500 levels. During COVID, the world stopped working. Right. And within a year we hit the previous high. Nothing was moving still 2021. India was witnessing the worst COVID peak. And we hit and the markets went up by 50% from pre-COVID. So three phases pre-COVID 12,500 then COVID for two years. Nothing was moving. Right. And the market then hit 50% more from 12,000 levels to 12,500 to 18,000 levels. You can apply any economic sense. It does not make this situation does not make any economic sense. Okay. That's what I'll simply say. Right. The only reason why this happened was that there was a liquidity flush. Right. So a lot of money was printed approximately 20% of entire US money supply was flooded into the market. And that led to stock market rally, which we explained by using the example of what asset price appreciation is. Okay. So this is called as asset price appreciation. And everything went up in value. For example, stocks went up in value, gold went up in value, real estate went up in value. The only thing that lost value was what right. Cash. Okay. So if you had not invested your cash in the market, you would have lost a lot of it. Right. Your buying power went down. Now how exactly did your buying power go down? Well, you could have purchase like a house in Bangalore, whichever city right at let's say 1.5 crores in 2019. The value of that same house, I can. I can say it with certainty that it would at least be like two and a half three crores. Okay. That's not just a Bangalore specific phenomenon. Right. That's applicable across Dubai. That's applicable across Goa. That's applicable across any city that you could. Okay. So that was a fact. Right. And this is a very powerful point because what we think is that you know news. Okay. I can name cycle off like HDFC bank is like this and that and that impacts the stock market that impacts HDFC. No, it's broad trends. Economics is literally number one factor that we need to study. Okay. So just quickly wrapping up so that I can start the class. So number one factor in stock analysis and macro economics. Right. This is the most powerful factor. I ran a macro driven Hitchpot. Right. So that's what I do. Second key factor is called as fundamental. Right. Fundamentals. For example, that is the fundamentals of the business. Good. Now what is it that we are trying to estimate here in simple language. We are trying to estimate whether the revenues profits or market knows market. I don't I cannot say that he this is right. That is right. Whatever is happening in the market is happening for a reason. Okay. It's because this like this idiot city coming from like fund managers. It's beyond thought. Okay. Number one, I don't know more about the market. Number two, stock market is a forward looking animal. Okay. It's not a backward looking animal. You tend to invest in growth. For example, a classic case study is that you might think that it's really a diatic that you know why a VC fund is investing in like let's say, you know, buy juice or ATM etc. Right. No. So I mean, you know, they are what are they doing? They are chasing growth as investors. The meaning of investing is that you put your money at risk for growth. So people will go where growth is. If for example, Britannia, the outlook looks like that it this company is not going to grow at like more than five six seven percent. But on the flip side, people are thinking that you know what boss I see is a matter everywhere expanding everywhere they can enter new businesses whenever they feel like they start selling concert tickets like one year ago and five years ago, if you would have asked. What is a matter people might not even have known. Okay. Five to another will be a weekend like 10 years ago, people would not have known what's a matter. Okay. So the point is that investors chase growth. So don't believe like don't keep on looking at history. Okay. So that's the bottom line. Okay. So I hope that this is the second key thing that when we are doing fundamental analysis. We are basically trying to understand whether a business revenues or profits will stay intact. Then business analysis we do at a firm level. Okay. So for example, if you are studying Britannia, right versus tomato. Okay. Now how do we study these two companies? So this is something that we will study today and then finally come technicals. Right. And then comes your portfolio, right. Portfolio. Right. So these are five key topics that you need to study. We have already covered macro fundamentals. We are touched upon in the last last Sunday class, right. Business we will study today on this class, right. And on business, right. I mean, honestly, like I mean, there is a course that I can create on this topic. It's a but that would be useless. Right. So what I will do is that I'll tell you a simple way of doing business analysis. And if you keep those 1718 points in mind with a particular framework in mind, you will be able to analyze most of the business. Okay. So that's the ideal. Okay. And then you will not like, you know, get into engage in all this nonsense that you know, I took a Britannia and a lot of an income company should not have replaced like so matter and all that because we are trying to chase growth. Right. Everyone loves growth. Right. The entire point of investing is growth. So of course, you're going to pick like high growth companies. Right. And give them a higher P multiple. Right. Britannia, for example, might be trading at a P of 10. Zomato might be trading at a P of 90, right. And this 90 might be right. This 90 might still be undervalued compared to this 10. Why? Because inherently, this is a faster growth company. Now why is that or that you need to understand business analysis at a firm level. Okay. So I hope that this is this agenda is clear. Right. And then we'll deep dive. Right. And just to give you like a per view of the entire next four classes. So this is what we are going to study. Right. So number one quickly. Right. Today we are going to cover these. Sorry, not this. Today we are going to cover these 17 points. Okay. We will look at some frameworks and understand something called as investment canvas. Why are we doing all this to understand what business analysis is. What is business analysis means Kacha is Britannia good company or is Zomato good company. So how do we answer what is good. Okay. So that is the precise conversation that we are going to have. Right. Today. Then we are going to understand portfolio building. Right. There is one class on selling of stocks, which I'll do an international investing, which I will do. Right. So these are like four topics that I will roughly cover. Okay. So number one key thing is that if you're deciding. Let's say that you have like five lakh rupees today. One very natural question comes that boss. I have this five lakh rupees. What should I do and where should I invest. This is like a, you know, age old question that people keep on asking me right wherever I meet them like if they find me at the airport. This is what they typically the problem statement that I then give me and I tell them two things. Okay. Number one. By good quality asset. Okay. Number two. By at right price. Okay. Then they get disappointed and leave. Okay. Because I've given them like theoretical yarn. Okay. So like I'm a cab. I don't know you right and you meet me at like airport lounge or whatever. And then you say that you could watch or other do stuff. So I'm going to write. So what will I say? It makes no sense. Right. So either join my course. So that's what the which I make like whatever sales date. Okay. So bottom line being that you know see and honestly I'm not trying to trick them. This is genuine thing right because this needs to be seen in context of your portfolio which you will study tomorrow. So for the timing will park the point about your portfolio on the side that we will try to cover tonight or tomorrow morning. But getting an understanding of these two things is very important. All these simple things. Right. And it's called real estate. You just try to pick this from a real estate example. That for example, if you buy like a very good quality land. Okay. In Bangalore. And let's say that you buy it like 30% 40% expensive even today. Okay. Because you don't understand like real estate and you don't understand like real estate pricing. Okay. Now, okay, fine in the short term like maybe on a three or four year five year basis. You will feel that you know what? You'll think that you're not going up. Okay. But if you expand the horizon 1520 30 years for tears and if you keep retaining that land. Do you think that you know that 30% premium that you've given today it's going to be bad for you? Probably not why because you have purchased an extremely good quality asset. Okay. I'll give you from my own example. So I bought a Portuguese villa in Goa. Okay. And I bought it for four years. Okay. In 2022. Now I had an understanding of what a good quality asset is and the valuation of it because this is my full time job. Right. So I bought it right and now I'm getting offers on it at 8.59. Okay. So like 100% growth into one and a half years. I'll say that you're going to go you again all this stuff. So I'll help you understand what a good quality asset is. Okay. Now why do you think that this is a good quality asset? You'll say that okay. Land probably like location probably like this. No. Land basically see. I mean the way to think about real estate is that he can I buy this at this price. Now, or will I be able to find some other property like this? Okay. So that is the way to think. Okay. So what is that house? Right. So it's a 120 year old heritage home. Okay. Now how many Portuguese 120 year houses are there in Goa right now? Let's say how? Let's say 10,000. Okay. After 30 years, how many do you think will remain? Maybe 5000. So the point is that this is a good quality asset because the more unique the asset is the better it is. Right. For example, I'm like I have no I do not like watches. Okay. I have never won a watch. Right. So I don't wear watch. I don't wear any jewelry or whatever. Right. But if I have to why watch I'll buy like Patrick Philip. Now why unlimited edition Patrick Philip it costs like close to a crore right and I'll probably the it's the only piece of like an luxury item I'll buy from that angle rather than buying a car. I drive a truck to mix all. Now why because it's a great investment. Why? Because it will there is no supply of those items. Right. Similarly, like for example, the Portuguese villa that I bought. There is a 120 year old history associated with it. No one can create time. Right. Now I can always advertise 30 years from now when I'm like whatever like 68 or something. 67 68 then I can always advertise it as 150 year old Portuguese house. How many 150 year old Portuguese houses will be there? And that would be zero because people are buying and builders are buying such houses demolishing it and creating four villas out of it. I have no need for cash flow. Okay. So I'll just retain it and do nothing on it. Right. And if I have to just do remand better innovated. So this will go up in value. So I hope everyone understands that what is a meaning of a good quality asset. Right. Good quality asset is that something which retains its value and has limited supply. Now it cannot be a completely unique product. It cannot be like Mona Lisa. For example, similarly if you get an opportunity to buy Taj Mahal at I don't know. 500 billion dollars. Should you buy it? Yes. Okay. Why at whatever price? Okay. The reason is that the reason is the reason is that there is only one Taj Mahal that is going to be there in the world with the history that comes with it. So buying like heritage homes, buying these type of things. If you get a 4 to 2 and if you can retain. It's probably the best investment strategy that I'm not exaggerating. So like land you can always buy like etc. etc. things you can always buy. So what smart investors have started to do is that they now these homes are not livable. For example, the house that I bought that Portuguese one that is livable. But majority of these homes because they are so old they are not livable. So what are investors started to do now that they will buy such a house. They will retain the front facade of the house and then rebuild the back and still advertise it as like a 150 year old Portuguese house or whatever. That's not authentic. That's gimmicky. Right. But sometimes you can find such deals. Okay. So even if some of you come and say that you know we want to buy a house at 20s here. The answer will be no. I have no intention of selling it. Okay. So yeah. No. So it's not I'm not looking at it from a super short term basis. It's a unique asset. I'll just retain it and do nothing of it. Okay. So that's the point. Okay. So yeah. So that's a bottom line. And I hope that that example. Kind of gives you a sense right as to what a unique asset means. It's very easy to explain it on real estate. For example, what else right for example, if let's say that you have an apartment with a great view or something or penthouse, you know, most luxury development. That's that's again a unique proposition. Why do you think that penthouses get sold very easily. This is the reason why. Okay. So the luxury you get or the luxury items you get now buying such luxury items. What do they do. They actually destroy your cash flow. Guess how much money or early rent time making on that Portuguese house. And there is zero. Now some genius will come and say that charcoal or a group team will allow to take out of the stuff. No, I'm not trying to solve that problem. My goal is wealth protection. Now that four will go to like you know I've already got to eight and a half nine. After 10 years, it will be 17, 18, 20. Okay. So it will automatically I'm not bothered about like cash flow on it for cash. I have other assets. Okay. So that's how you need to plan your portfolio bottom line mean that if you buy like a high quality asset. Right. And retain it. It will grow in value. Right. We are not talking about price. But yes, the goal of investing is very simple that you buy something which is super high quality. Right. And then grow it in and then buy it at the right price if possible. So if you're doing these two things, then you will make a lot of money. Right. Now doing this on stocks is really complicated because with that Portuguese house, you can always think you're trying to want to. Yeah. Of course, it makes sense. But how do you think about this on stocks. So for that, you need to understand business analysis. Right. So the first. So I'll take you through like 17, 18 points. Right. How about business analysis and use different examples. So the goal of this is to create something called as investment canvas. Now what exactly is investment canvas. I'll tell you, right. And we will use some examples. Okay. So let me just see if my board is getting retained for just a minute. I don't know if it will. So but let me take examples. Okay. HDFC bank. Let's pick. Okay. Let's pick different different types of forms. Okay. Now, we pick. Okay. This is a small cap company, which else which one let's pick Britannia right. It's about a month. Okay. Let's pick Zumato. Right. So let's pick a manufacturing company like page industries. Okay. So these are like five different types of businesses that we will pick. And we will just use these as case studies on today's class. Okay. All right. So the first key thing that you need to think about like for example, I have five lakh rupees where should I invest. What is the first thing that you should think about it. Okay. Let me figure out a high quality asset. So what is the first rule of picking a high quality asset that it's time should be high. Right. So what is the meaning of time in investing world or startup world means total addressable market. Okay. Now two examples here. Right. So for example, if you pick time of automotors. What's this? If you pick time of Zumato, where do you think time will be higher? The meaning of time is that how many people or it market can it go and acquire for example, if the population of India is let's say, you know, one forty crores. Can Zomato probably target all one forty crores. What about automotors? How big the time will be. So where do you think that time will be more? Of course, Zomato, but here you're thinking about the current business of Zomato. Think about the future business of Zomato, which is reasonable. For example, Zomato, can it go into concert tickets? Yes. Can it go into let's say owning an IPL team. Probably I don't know. Right. Can it go into Singapore market? Yes. Can it go into Dubai market? It probably was and I think they. The wind wound the shop. Can they go into the island? Yes. Can they go into like even launching their own EVs? Why not? They probably can. They can probably for example, if they're total driver network is it's like 50, 60 lakhs. Why can't they launch? Provide them that option of, you know, just creating that. So the time or the total addressable market of Zomato is much bigger compared to. To data motors, right. Everyone is understanding on top of that what else can they go to for example, you might have for of Amazon pay or Apple pay. Similarly, they can also launch Zomato pay. They are probably working on that model. They can have like give you like cash back reference. They can launch their own credit debit card. It when time comes right. They can do hospitality. They can do to it's like for example, if when you go to Airbnb and book an Airbnb anywhere. What you would notice is that there are activities around that here. You can book those activities also. You know thing class, let's join or like you know, let's go on a local food tour or whatever. Why can't Zomato do that? And now it's not about just running with wild ideas, right. You'll say that you've gone mad because you have like a little bit of Zomato in your portfolio. No, it's not like that. It's about it's also about. The the probability of that business taking such activity and succeeding in it. Right. For example, if Zomato goes into concert selling. Then can it do it versus Tata Motors going into concert selling. Where do you think it would be easier. Zomato drone delivery. Right. So the point is that this is called as tam there are businesses which have a wider time right and then there are businesses which have a narrower time. For example, Tata Motors is a narrow tam business. Now, why is this a narrow tam business because that's imagine that this is Tata Motors. What it does it sells cars primarily. Okay. Over time, if Ola electric is coming right or ether energies coming over level like they can also long be wide is there Tesla is there. Are these companies going to take some market share away from Tata Motors? Yes. Okay. Can Tata Motors in order to preserve its base do something else for example, can it go into space exploitation. Very difficult like they can but it's the probability of this happening is very low. Okay. So the point being that you know, Tata Motors becomes a candidate where market share is going to be taken away. Okay. In a market which is fixed. Now, what is the meaning of market getting fixed. So for example, if you consider EV. Okay. Now because for example, let's say that we are in 2025 and there are 50 lack cars in the world. Now, why are there 50 lack cars in the world because the population of the world is whatever like 7.5 billion population. And they use 50 lack cars now is the population of the world by like 20 30 going to go to like 8 billion answer is no it will remain like almost same only right. And instead of 50 lag, maybe there will be like 55 lack cars. So this is a slow growth industry. Everyone understands. Okay. Now EV has come means what that this is a new opportunity for other players who had missed out on building like EV like for example, Tata guys Maruti guys. Whatever like Tesla B by D they have all done it. Okay, but B by D is a fairly young company Tesla is also a fairly young company Ford Motors are all old. Okay. So new guys come like Musk. They will say that you know what we missed out on selling cars. We'll also enter car business because there is a fundamental shift that is happening in this industry. So who do you think they are going to take market share away from Ford Motors, Tata Motors, Maruti all this stuff. Why because this industry itself is not expanding. And there are new entrance coming when missed out on the previous like you know conventional automobile building risk. Okay. So now they will enter the show and they will try to claim whatever business they potentially can. Right. So therefore it's a the the mood has to be sorry the pan has to be defined in context of the business and but I hope that everyone understands what's the meaning of them and what type of business are we. Why would new entrance come in a fixed market. This is because they can still be profitable. So they come like 50 60 lack cars or whatever number of outstanding cars are there. They will have like whatever 678% growth rate for some people think that you know what okay fine. There is a fixed 5560 like cars. But we can go and we can capture like maybe 20% of the market and that market itself looks very lucrative. Right. So it's like saying that okay. Why would. So it's like a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. So it's a good. It's a good. It's a good. So it's a good. But if we take. We're not saying sometimes we didn't get a. We didn't verify the. So we did it where you had Burr. And if we don't, this is, we're not saying, Okay, so this is port as five forces, right? And basically like, you know, it talks about like there are five factors which helps a company remain competitive. For example, if new entrants cannot enter, so am I told now, do you think it's easy for me to enter and build something like a delivery network of like whatever, 50 lakh drivers or something. Short answer is no, this is massively capital expensive, right? I cannot do it. This has to be crazy, okay? Comparative rivalry. For example, there was Uber Eats, there was, you know, food panda, all that got shut. So what was the competition that rivalry? Maybe like 10 years ago, there were a lot of companies like Zomato. All got killed, two remain now, Swiggy and Zomato. That's it. Okay, so it's got to be a third. No, right? So competitive rivalry is low here. This is also not a problem. Thread of substitutes. Can someone else come and you know, kill like Zomato business? The short answer is no. See, Zomato sets here. Okay. Here is where restaurants are. Right? Restaurants, restaurants, restaurant, quick commerce, whatever you call us or like retail stores. Okay. Now, they are a level up compared to these guys. Okay. For example, restaurants can be replaced, but Zomato, you will say that, okay, these all guys will come together and you know, kick Zomato out. So what are they waiting for? Are they waiting for like, you know, some uprising and then they will do it right? I mean, Zomato is already eating it to their margins. They have no option but to collaborate with Zomato to do science. Okay. So this is also not there. Baragaining power of customers. Now, when you buy on IPL, do you have any bargaining power? Can I have like, no, no, I used to buy it for me. I'll buy it for you. Tick her. No, so you can't do anything. Okay. So they will just price it. They will start like platform fee, convenience fee, whatever it is. Bargaining powers of suppliers, these restaurants, do they have any power? The short answer is no. So the point is that from a business point of view, it's highly unlikely that this business is going to go down, right? Han in three years. Oh, and DC how many years it has, Oh, and DCV not active. See, if anytime there is a government initiative, just laugh it off and do nothing on it. Okay. And I'll give you an example of Goa. Okay. And this is like I'm in Abhiya, Gya, Kino, what Ola, Uber, we will kill such idiotic steps. I cannot like even begin to fund. Okay. It's just idiotic, right? I mean, if you think from a capitalist point of view, think about it in this way. For example, I live in South Goa and I spend a considerable amount of time there every year. What is number one pain point in Goa that you don't get taxis? And if you get taxis, it's expensive and if it's not easy to book like Ola, Uber and all that stuff, what's the solution to that? Like genuine solution to that? The genuine solution to that is that hey, let businesses come, fight it out. For example, if Akshath wants to start his taxi fleet and provide good service, right, let him do it. Okay. And that's that. Okay. So, but what will happen is that there is like taxima fear. So you have just replaced Ola, Uber with an inefficient taxima fear, which hobnoms with politician. Of government, I'm the one, you know, networking app, whatever, like, you know, the cooperative of tax key app, we will launch Pan India level. Now, anyone who is building like Blue Smart, anyone who is building Ola, Uber, why will they do it? Okay. So it makes no sense. That's problem one. Okay. Problem two is that it creates a very bad president's for example, tomorrow, if I build like an EV fleet for something for delivery. Okay. Or if I build a business that, you know, where, you know, I'm bringing in efficiency. I'll always be scared that okay, tomorrow, government will come and you fall to get things, you win DC, you know, right. And then and it's a scare tactic. All it does is that it dissuades people from, you know, creating more businesses in a sensible way. Right. So that's what is there. Goa miles, for example, the app that people can use in Goa, that's a government app. That's not a private app. Okay. It's a taxi union app in a way. Okay. It's not as if that, you know, you're getting any better like rates as customers. So all these are like, you know, massive inefficiencies. There is a reason why capitalism has survived for such a long period in time because it eventually benefits the customer. There is competition of service providers that there will be 10 options that you will have. The best guy at the best possible price will produce something or give you services at and you as a customer will win. But every time government steps in, they just kicks 70 80% of the business out. They themselves become inefficient and then they figure out okay, let's do PPP. Okay. So like eventually we'll hand it over to Adani Ji and he will run taxi, you know, operator in India now. Right. So let's give him another line of 10 billion dollars. Okay. Whatever crap. Right. So it's just mindlessness. Okay. That is there. Right. So that's the bottom line. Right. And when DCN all is not going to kill like Zomato, there is a reason why these companies are there. Now very quickly. Now very quickly. Right. See guys, I have nothing against Adani Ji, but let me give you an example. Okay. So which is one of the talking points also. Okay. And you guys think that okay, XYZ billionaire is like so nice. Right. And they have worked really hard to get there. Yes, they have. Okay. But what is like, for example, let me tell you the story of Anil Ammani. Right. So Anil Ammani destroyed a company called as reliance comm. Okay. He drove that stock to zero for bunch of different reasons. Then assets that were there. So for example, this process is called as asset liquidation that whatever like factories, machines, the company had, they were liquidated. And the company also had debt. Okay. So like 500 cross six hundred or whatever. Right. Now who bought the assets that were there, location money, okay, off our home. Okay. And debt, who gave debt to Anil Ammani. You will say, I did not give right. Okay. Fine. So who gave. Okay. So he'll say as B.I. And what type of banks gave debt to Anil Ammani public banks? Why not HDFC and all. Okay. So they gave debt. Now do you now try searching? How much debt does location money has right now? And Adani has right now. Okay. Do you think all the ports are getting made for free? Right. Who is funding all that operation? You give me like $10 trillion. I'll become a trillionaire. I'll open like 20 ports for you out there. I don't create like 10 airports for you. Do you think that that's complicated? No. Getting debt is very complicated. Okay. That's the problem. And you as a public are funding for that entire operation with no efficiency in play. Right. So it's not like a personal hate against anyone. It's just crony capitalism. It's known as crony capitalism. Russian billionaires are the richest people in the world. Right. Why? Because that parts of Russia was sold off to the highest bidders. Okay. Same exact thing is happening in India right now. Look look around right. Playbreen. Okay. There is no personal animosity I have with anyone. Okay. And you yourself will be able to see do a little bit of business analysis. Okay. So but wrapping up the point around mode. Right. So very quickly these five factors you check. This is a framework that you can use. Okay. Now in mode analysis. Right. We look at like key success business line wise. For example, Zomato has let's say five business lines. One is let's say food delivery. Okay. Second might be with commerce. Right. Which is the two and all that right. So third would be let's say tickets or entertainment. Fourth could be something else. Right. So you check the revenue streams of every business and try to figure out the winning advantage. Okay. Winning advantage. Right. So this is what you need to figure out that okay, why will food delivery mode survive for Zomato? Right. Because they have a huge delivery network very hard to replicate those five factors. Q commerce may you do the same. Right. Ticket events may you do the same. XYZ business may you do the same. Right. And you have to do this mode analysis on a on that basis. Okay. And you need to see Zomato's business model in context of their larger a tab. Okay. So which was which is always the case that hey, is the company reaching out to new customers or not. Okay. For example, someone asked me that hey, the example that you gave of Britannia that their time is fixed or Tata Motors that their time is fixed. What about Asian paints versus let's say indigo paints. Same problem there. No, that okay. For example, this is Asian paints. Majority of their business comes from what paints. Now, okay. Now is paint like a big industry and can Asian paints keep on growing? The short answer is that how do you categorize this stock? Okay. So for example, Asian paints, what is the winning advantage for Asian paints? Or what is the key success factors? So there are two factors. Number one is quality slash brand because many people want to do like Asian paints well up paint only. Okay. Why? Because they might paint their house once every five six years. And at least if there's a difference of 10, 15,000 on my entire painting cost 15, 20,000, I'll rather just buy like a slightly more expensive one and be done with it. Okay. And the second key thing is distribution. Right. Now, how do you think like for example, majority of the manufacturing oriented business in India are distribution driven businesses? Now, what is the meaning of distribution? For example, it's a hub and spoke model. It's not as if that's someone from like Asian paints factory picks up bucket of paint and start selling a tree. They will go. So this is called as analyzing value chain. Okay. So value chain of Asian paints might look something like this that Asian paints will manufacture a bucket of paint. Okay. Or like whatever one million buckets. Okay. Then they will give it to their distributor. Okay. Now this distributor gives it to like for example, this might be a North India distributor. Now this guy's goes to like you know, three cities in North India. Now, now this is a wholesaler. Right. So where will be I got right. So this is called as hub and spoke model. So this model is very hard to replicate. Right. Now on this distribution chain or Asian paints, there will be like maybe you know, five thousand partners. So replicating this model is very, very complicated. Okay. Because when you own a shop, for example, the eventual end point guy is owning a shop in let's say in the world. What is his cost? His cost is running this shop. If Asian paints sells well, then he also makes money. But if he puts like Magnum Opus or whatever the paint is, right. And if that does not sell well, he's also losing revenue because he also has to pay like shop rent and whatever. Right. So here like is the company treating its distributors fairly, right. Are they happy with it? That's very important point that do they even want to retain. And second is that what is the brand value of the company? Okay. Now when it comes to paint business, the you have to understand that there is something called a supply change. Okay. So supply chain means that and it's very simple. This is how you would need to analyze every business. That for example, if you look at Asian paints, there is something called as input cost. For example, and then there is processing. And there is marketing distribution. These will be three levels, right. So for example, let's say Asian paints, input cost will be oil. Right. So this is where oil prices addicted that whatever chemicals they are extracting and making paints from now, if that barrel of oil costs $100, their price point will, you know, this will eventually let's say the entire bucket is getting sold for 1000 rupees. Okay. To the end customer. This cost itself might make like, you know, 500 rupees, right. And this can vary from 250 rupees to 500 rupees. Right. If the oil prices are high, then you have to pay 500. If the oil prices are low, you have to pay 250. Then processing fee and marketing and distribution. Now this is not a complex manufacturing game. Okay. Anyone can manufacture paint. Even I can manufacture paint. It's not that hyper complicated. Okay. What is complicated is so now if it is not a very complicated manufacturing game, then what is the entire game about? Number one thing, what is the mode of the company distribution that hey, can you get your product out faster? Okay. Because the cost for everything or cost of production is not going to differ massively. For example, if let's say you will say that, okay, Indigo paint I got and it is going to start offering this 1000 to be paid at 800 to peace. Now, what do you think Asian paints is going to do? It is going to do it at 900 or 815, right. Now I'll go as a buyer and I'll say that, okay, Indigo paint I'm going to add some of it right. This is this I'm getting at 850. Asian paints here. Why are they will they be able to do this? Will they be able to like, you know, cost cut in this a strong brand will they be able to cost cut on it on this. The short on there is yes. Okay. Five years from now, will people still require paints in their house or would they be doing yes? Are more houses getting constructed in India? Yes. Yes. So that's again not a problem. So to cut the long swoosh and final point that can the company undertake something called as vertical and horizontal integrations. Now what does that mean? A vertical integration and horizontal and the old time and other. So this is horizontal integration. This is vertical integration. Horizontal integration means that for example, if the company Asian paints manufacture all weather paints, okay, paints, basic paints, then they whatever like, you know, they let's say they start start doing like, you know, what do you call POP or whatever it is called. I'm not that will works with like, interiors. So this is not my area of expertise. I'm just using random examples. Then they issue like all weather paints. Okay. So this is like similar type of paints. Okay. Then they start getting into that wallpaper thing. Right. So you can stick wall papers and floor stickers, wallpaper, tiles, whatever. Then they can vertically integrate into interior decor, right, which they are already doing. So this is opens up a new market. Right. They allow you to design your own homes, right, custom studio. If you are in UAE, you would see that there is something called as Danube homes where you can literally go and buy like everything into it. That is dragon mart. You just go inside and you can literally furnish your house and like a day. Okay. Now all this physical expansion they can do now can Zomato compete with Asian paints on this this industry. Or at all, they are like completely different businesses. For example, if Zomato launches paint, no one gives a shit. Okay. So that's the point. Okay. So that is an irrelevant product. Okay. So to cut the long story short, right, Asian paints is still likely to survive three to five years. What is a mistake that you will make while buying Asian paints that you can buy expensive. Okay. And that's the mistake. It's not as if that business why it's a bad business to own. Right. It's a hype. So that's the bottom line. And this is the difference between Tata Motors and Asian paints that motor industry is stagnating. It is going through a fundamental shift. For example, EV Tata Motors might be great at conventional manufacturing. But tomorrow, B by D, which was which is probably like a 10 year 15 year old company, it can come and crush 100 year old automotive player. But can a new paint intern and come and crush Asian paints. No, because it's a low end manufacturing. It's not going to get disruptive. Okay. Paints as I know that you have invisible louse. Okay. So no, that's not something which is useful. Okay. Okay. So I hope this point is clear. Okay. Then why do you support indigo paints? So I'm so it's not about like an I'll buy only one company. Okay. So for example, if I'm buying this is something that I covered earlier that I will try to be diversified. Okay. Now, for example, if I'm buying private banks, I'll buy HDFC also, Kotec also, ICIC also, access also, all four are same for me. If I'm buying Asian paints, now I don't think that there's going to be a massive difference between Asian paints and, you know, Birlau, and you know, XYZ companies, right. Indigo paints is a very small guy. Okay. They will take some market share away. Right. So for them to double their market share from 10 units to 20 units is not that complicated. Why? Because it's a small cap company. So let me just help you understand this cap while argument also. So if you go here, right, you go on screen, not right. And you look at Asian paints. Now here you will see market cap of 2.24 lakh crores. Okay. So in the go paints, I'm sure in the go. 2.24 lakh crores. This is 4,000 crores. Okay. So what I'm betting on on indigo paints, I'm just betting on KIA, you know, this will become like maybe 20,000 crore company. In the next 10 years, even if that happens, I'm very happy. Okay. So this is a 2x stock for me. Okay. What is Asian paints for me? Asian paints is a 15% 13% stock for me that if it gives me 13% returns, I am very happy with Asian paints. But the objective of buying indigo paints is different. Okay. Now both of the companies, what is it that I need to check? I need to check the two things like that are the revenues growing? Yes. Are the profits growing? Yes. Okay. For Asian paints, it is. Okay. What about, sorry, indigo paints, it is. What about Asian paints? Is it, is this growing? Yes. It's not as if that it's going down. Is this growing? Yes. I have a profits. Okay. So is the business crap for Asian paints? The short answer is no. It's doing fine. Okay. Is the business good for indigo paints? The short answer is no. It is fine. And please note, I am not talking in terms of the price of the stock right now. I am not commenting on the price yet because this class is about judging asset quality. Okay. So we are doing part one first and then we can talk about price subsequently. Okay. Adani is entering everywhere. Man. Adani will enter into like, you know, stock market ports also the next time you take it to leave like Adani will, I don't know like so, what any. So like so bottom line being that you cannot worry about Adani. Right. So they will enter everywhere with that logic you should only buy Adani. Right. So like there's nothing that you can do then. Okay. So yeah. Okay. But yes, for example, Geofinance, should you have like a billionaire hedge or croonic capitalist or whatever you call it? Yes. Okay. So for example, if you're buying Vajaj finance also buy Geofinance. Okay. So yeah. So that's the so one nation two company. I'm like, so I think that can be done like signing as. Right. So bottom line being that don't worry about Adani and all. This will speak tomorrow that how to create like an Adani hedge or a money hedge. Right. That also is important. We have to be realistic. But won't price should fluctuate with profits. It should. But what should happen does not really happens in real life. Right. For example, if you study hard, it does not mean that you will get marks. You'll only get marks if you are like my wife and you know how to ace exams. I'm bad at it. Okay. And my wife scored like 98 marks or whatever like 100 marks and like maths. I scored like what is 7580 but finance I'm better. Okay. So like for example, Hindi, she scored like what 96 97% marks right. And you know Hindi bullwallow made send me the life say right. I can speak like Shuddindi. Right. And I should have I should sue CBSC. Okay. So while giving me like worst marks and my wife. Okay. But yeah, marks are not a different skill. And bull lines and different skill. Okay. So point being that don't worry about all these things that okay, stop profit right. So that should happen that it does not happen on one-on-one basis. Okay. But it broadly in the long term, it happens. Okay. I'll explain this also in the second half. Right. But let's complete the thought process. Right. This is a little bit boring class. But honestly, it's very important for you to understand these these salient points. Right. So okay. So anyways, I hope that this point is clear. What is the meaning of time? What is the meaning of mode? Right. So what is the mode of now? Let us just quickly do a quick exercise that what is the mode of HDFC bank? Okay. The mode of HDFC bank is regulation. Okay. I can I open HDFC bank or a bank similar to HDFC? The short answer is no. I can't. Okay. What is the mode of Noama? Well, okay. Noama. Well, okay. And to understand this, what you need to do is that see you go type read about the company that what is it? Not the company is doing. For example, Noama with what it does. It is breaking and equity. Okay. So here, then you need to figure out that does it have a narrow mode or a wide mode? Okay. So this is the conversation that you need to have. Now what is the meaning of a narrow mode? Narrow mean not narrow mode means it for example, when it comes to Zomato delivery business, food delivery business, that is a narrow mode. Okay. It also has a wide mode because it has other lines of businesses. Okay. When it comes to Asian paints, what is the narrow mode? It is its distribution network of paints. Does it have a wide mode yet? Is it interior business really big or not? Now, how do you get this data? So just simply go on publicity and type that and you just literally ask for a publicity. Okay. So now it is a very personal way life. I don't know why my internet is not working just a second. Okay. Okay. So we will show you publicity and you can see more in the question. So just simply go. Right. High brand equity. Now do you think that in paying to business brand matter? Yes. Maybe on a scale of 10, 10 being the 10 being really important. Maybe it matters under scale of six seven. Okay. Not at 10. For example, when it comes to Apple computers or computers, brand matters. When it comes to luxury watches, brand matters on 10 or 10. Okay. But here there is going to be that strong distribution network. So they have 25,000 dealers. Okay. This is huge. Operational efficiency. So what are they doing? They are working in a commodity business. The modest commodity business. Petrol Haridah, oil Haridah, right. And you do cost cutting and you manufacture it at best possible price. They have a lot of experience on this. Okay. Increased competition. But see, now here, this is again, emerging challenges. Increased competition is competition increasing? Yes. Is it a good sign? Yes and no. Why is it a good sign? Because you yourself think if paying to business was crap, why would like an adani's, you enter and all that? Right. I mean, because money is being made in this industry, therefore people are entering. Right. So it's common sense. Right. Important question to ask here is that can Asian paint survive the competition? Now, if revenue numbers and profit numbers are telling us that it is surviving, then it's fine. It's not a problem. Right. Rising cost. Now, is this a company specific problem or is this an industry specific problem? Now, that's a very important aspect of business analysis. Okay. This is called as industry wide problem and company specific problem. Now, industry wide problem means that if the oil barrel goes from 100 to $100 to $150, now, does this only impact Asian paints or does it impact the entire industry? It impacts everyone. So this is not a problem for Asian paints. Shifting customer dynamics. This again is very vague. Okay. I was not going to train them a little bit. You know what? Okay. Some study has been done and Asian paints. People are not preferring or there is some kind of brand scam that is happening or Asian paints is like, you know, doing like some shady stuff and all that. Then it's a problem. Okay. So I hope that this point is clear that how do you analyze basic mode and you have for chat, GPT, up or complexity, up and you have to look at it. Right. So you can just simply go and run this analysis fairly quickly. Okay. So I hope that this this point is clear and chat GPT, what do you call publicities fairly accurate on this? Okay. So honestly, these are generally they have covered like almost 80, 85% of the points really. Okay. So it's not as if that you need to apply a lot of brain and this can be done fairly quickly. Everyone with me. Okay. But if you want to do a deeper analysis, you can go to portus by forces and think about every element. Okay. Everyone gets it. Okay. All right. So I hope that this point is clear. Industry expanding can survive. Key success factors. Next point is cost of capital and is the debt sensible? Now this is a slightly technical point. So I'll try to explain it to the best of my ability. Right. So what happens is that when you start a company, for example, if I start wisdom hatch, I have two options of getting capital. Capital means that I get money. Okay. One is called as equity capital. In one is called as a debt capital. Now debt I can get easily because if I go to a loan and say that here I'm starting wisdom hatch, can you please give me one crore loan? The bank will say, okay, fine, take one crore loan and give me all this fees and start paying me 10% interest. Okay. So this is called as debt capital. Equity capital means that I don't go to a bank. I go to investor. So let's say that I go to Anilji, right? And I say that he or which guy please give me like, you know, 10 lakhs. Right. I want to build a website and hire like three developers, all that stuff. And in return, I'll give you like 10% of my company. So you become you own 10% of the company, I own 90%. This is called as equity financing. And this is called as debt financing. If you add equity plus debt, this is cost, this is called as and you take an average. This is called as cost of capital. More specifically, it is called as a back WACC weighted average cost of capital because I might raise 10% debt, 90% equity or 30% debt, 70% equity or whatever. Okay. So this is called as back WACC. Everyone understands what WACC is. Okay. Business school professors take like three classes to teach this. Okay. I don't teach in you like five minutes. Okay. So, okay. Now, fine. Now I got it. I got it. I was able to raise money. Okay. Now what do I do with this money? Well, let's say that I was able to raise one crore. Now I put this one crore in my business. I build a website. I advertise whatever. And by next year, I make like two crores. Then I make I procs. Then I make 10% okay. And my profit of it is which is great. Right. My business starts expanding. Now, when will but add the same time, right. I have to keep paying my debt because bank is not going to wait. Right. Bank will command their 10% every year. Or my investors will expect me to deliver them. Sorry, my investors will expect me to deliver or give them some dividends. Okay. So this is called as so what do I need to do? So I raised money. Right. I have something called as WACC. Okay. I need to pay dividends. I need to pay debt or repayment of debt or EMI. Plus I need to generate profits. Okay. Now if I add all these things, right. So for example, let's say my WACC is 100 units. Okay. But half all this, right. Let's say that my profits are let's say 150. Okay. Minus dividends, I pay 30 and debt, I pay 20. Then I'm at 100 units, right. Off on the right hand side. Okay. And 100 units here. Right. So this is a profitable trade for a company that I raised money. I'm able to generate enough profits. And then I'm paying my debt holders and equity holders. Or in simple words, my weighted average cost of capital is not higher than the returns that my company is generating. Okay. I'll say that again, that the weighted average cost of my capital is not higher than the returns that my company is generating. Okay. Now this in simple terms returns that my company is generating on the total capital that I've taken is called as ROIC or return on invested capital or ROI or whatever you call it. Okay. So we'll not get into technical definition. What I want to say our goal is not to become a content. Now someone asked me that, okay, what about like a Danny D business did that stuff? So you check. Okay. So you go and type out. Just a second, guys. Okay. So you go and type out. WACC or weighted average cost of capital for Adani. Okay. So you'll say that WACC is 14.96. So Adani has to pay 14.96 as what you call outflows. Okay. Now if you go to Adani enterprise now which is which will give you a fair representation. And here you'll say ROCE is 9.87. Now what does this indicate? This indicates that they are roughly borrowing at 13, 14% and generating 10% return on that capital. Now is this a sensible business model? The short answer is a no. Okay. Now is it a no for every type of investor? No. Like come and see. Now there are different different types of investors. For example, there are fundamental investors. Now no sensible fundamental investor is ever going to invest one rupee in Adani stocks. Okay. Because there is no competitive advantage that Adani has except for political patronage. Okay. That's it. Okay. You take away six of their ports. They are screwed. Okay. So and that can that be done? Yes. At some stage. Right. If the government changes and all that stuff. Who knows? Okay. Now, yeah. So all those are complicated things. Now a fundamental investor does not bet on these type of events. If you are analyzing stuff fundamentally, industry wise, then the company that you're picking, it's weighted average cost of capital needs to be lower than it's ROIC. Okay. ROC. Okay. So everyone gets this. And this is applicable to non-finan stocks. This the ROIC WACC conversation. We cannot check it for HDFC bank, etc. For example, if you go to let's say HDFC, HDFC bank. So here you will say ROC is 7.67. Now this is a finance stock. So you ignore it. Now why are we ignoring finance stocks? Because here the lending and borrowing rules work differently. For example, where do banks borrow money from? To the borough it from you most of the time. The short answer is no. Their borrowing rates are very different. Right. For example, when you give your money in savings, how much is the bank borrowing your money for? Zero. Okay. So like you're not getting anything right on savings. Okay. Corporate accounts is zero. Okay. If they're borrowing from it from RBI, it's less. Okay. So so that gets into complication. The money itself is forward to them because their business model is not that they will take money invested into something else and create something of value and sort of entire chain. So for finance companies, we ignore this. Right. For rest of the manufacturing companies, this ROIC slash WACC theory is very important. Okay. So I hope that this point is clear. Someone has asked me two questions. I'll just quickly take that. Why will a bank lend you money to start a company? So that was just an example and sometimes banks do lend. Right. So for example, if I'm already an established entrepreneur, if I have cash flows, then they might lend me against my assets. Okay. So I can take a business loan. Right. For example, very similar how people take construction loan on their existing land. So that can also be done. What is the cost of capital you're talking about on equity to calculate? So here we are not doing like I'm explaining your broad concept. Now you will not even be able to assess this. Right. This is very complicated. Yeah. Dhani G pay equity financing. Githni and debt financing. That's corporate finance. We are not getting there. Right. What I'm trying to tell you is that I'm helping you develop a 360 degree view point for an investor. As investors, we are part lawyers, part accountants, part C is, etc, etc. We are not like a lawyer or a PSG. Okay. So that's WACC should not be higher. Yes. Or ROIC should be higher than WACC. Okay. So I hope that this concept is clear. Businesses where this is not happening or is unlikely to happen in the future. Right. That's a problem. Okay. So for a mature company, for example, if you take a look at any mature company, let's say HUL. Okay. Now what is ROIC? ROC 27.2. It's a lot of work. Okay. But like I mean, if you because sometimes this note also keeps on changing. Right. So but anytime a mature company has a ROIC more than 15% that's fairly good. You can consider that to be in your consistent type of stocks. Okay. What about like Asian penetration bands are we come over. Okay. Okay. So ROC is 37. I don't know how 37. Right. But point being that this should be more than 15% right. So that's what we are aiming for. Right. So and this is a check mark. Okay. So basically this is a list. So if it is less than like 14% then definitely it's a no. If it is temporarily, let's say 10% but you feel that AgitlK it will be like 15%, 20% all that stuff. Then it kind of makes sense. Okay. But in an event where the ROC is already like 9% and you don't see this improving too much, then that company should be avoided. Okay. So this is the only key takeaway that I will give from this particular note that if a mature company's ROC is lower than its vac, right. And you assume that WACC for most companies in India will be 12%. Okay. This is the barrier that they need to beat. Okay. So therefore we are saying that at least 14 though. Now, okay. So 1314 is the absolute minimum that should be the case. Okay. So I hope this this point is clear. For when it comes to a smaller company, for example, Indigo paints. Okay. Now here the ROC is only 23.2. Now you'll say that occasion paints is having 37 point something, right. In the same industry here it is 23.2. Should I ignore this? No. Because what is the meaning here? See, Indigo paints might be manufacturing stuff this much. Okay. Now as it manufactures this much, there will be economies of scale. You might have heard that in like your economics class when you were a kid that as for example, if you're making just one table up in a wider clear car painter comes to your house and you get one bed made. But if you get five bedmates together, then the overall cost comes down. So that is called as economies of scale. Okay. So I hope that this point is clear to everyone, right. That for a smaller form, usually the WACC will improve, right. Because it's manufacturing will improve. It's marketing spent overall as a percentage of its revenues will come down as the revenues go up. It's borrowing cost itself will go down. Okay. Yeah. ROE is a car. I'm not put because ROE is just return on equities. Okay. So equity is a type of a capital. ROC is return on capital employed. Capital includes both equity and debt. So ROC is a better matrix compared to ROE. Okay. Everyone gets it. Okay. So therefore ROC, otherwise like I mean, if you just again, the goal is not to become an accountant. Okay. So the goal is to absorb this information, sensibly, right. I hope this point is clear to everyone. Right. The only thing or the only key takeaway and that I'll give from gift for US, there are certain businesses where the ROC just does not make sense in context of WACC. So you can eliminate them altogether. Right. For example, just a birthday at it. Okay. So here's like barely hitting right 13.1. So this is like borderline. Okay. Now it's a cyclical business. Right. So I'll talk about tomorrow what cyclical businesses are and when should you buy them. But as a general rule, right, you cannot buy these type of businesses on our five 10 year basis and just stay put. It makes no sense. Right. For example, even from a stock price of point of view, what you will notice is that it goes like this. Okay. So here is the stock it keeps on going like this. If you buy it here, you'll make money after four years, like four years, you'll make zero returns. So therefore, you're entry timing on these type of stocks is critical. Why? Because the business does not expand, right. They will make money for four years. Then government will come, give me my cut. Right. Here is spectrum 6G. Give me money. Otherwise, you are screwed. Right. So they give them crores. Okay. And all the profits are taken away. Okay. So yeah. So that's a problem. Okay. So you can't do anything on that. Right. So I hope this point is clear. Okay. Now next point, no red flags. Okay. So no red flags. Now this is a very complicated thing to check to be honest. Right. There is no like right or wrong way of checking what is the meaning of like red flags for us. Okay. Now red flags can be 100. Okay. So for example, this is a Gen Sol engineering case. Now if you find a very specific company specific problem, right. I had Rajesh exports on my portfolio. I had to sell it because you know, corporate issues. Okay. And these out of like, you know, 3040 stocks that you have in your portfolio, at least two, three of them will have some kind of red flags. So whenever you start seeing red flags, just get out. Okay. So there is just no point in, you know, keeping these type of non-sense stocks. Cut to your 30, 40% loss, whatever it is. And it's okay to book losses. Okay. Your overall portfolio should win. It's not as if that you need to make money from every single individual stock. There is no end to this and there is no way to predict this. For example, no management will come on TV and say that, you know, what we are thieves. Please invest with us. No one is going to say that, right? And you can read like 20 annual reports. What will they write on annual reports? They say good good stuff. Only that are, you know, our CEO saves puppies and you know, he like, you know, helps like homeless people and you know, all good good things only they are going to save. Okay. They're not only say that, you know, what we are siphoning off money. Okay. One red flag that I have particularly seen is that you will see like founders that are doing a lot of PR. Okay. That's not really a healthy sign for a company. Right. The founders should focus on running their company, not doing like non-sense PR. That's a sign. It's not a given thing. Okay. So, but yeah, I mean, this is a qualitative factor. You can't do much and you can't investigate. You can read as many reports as you want. Okay. Okay. This is an important point. If the company has potential to go through PE expansion and if the company is undergoing an EPS expansion, now that's a very powerful quantitative indicator that the stock will grow. Okay. So, let me check. Right. I mean, if we can like pick an example of let's say, no, I'm like that. Okay. So, the PE of our stock is 24. Okay. So, here is and no, I'm like, I'm already like, whatever, six, seventy, eighty percent profits. I'd already bought this earlier. And this is a new company, right. I'm in first and foremost. This is a part of Edelweiss Group. Okay. So, this is in a broken business, broken trading securities. And what is the central theme of this? Right. So, this is in wealth management. Okay. So, first, understand, like nature of the business. So, this is wealth management. What do they deal with? Right. They deal with people invest money. Okay. Now, if people in India are getting richer, right. Something like Noama wealth will make lot more money. If more people get into equities stock markets, the Noama wealth is going to go up. Okay. So, the size of the investment community in India is the underpinning of this stock. That if the size of the Indian investing community goes gross from let's say 10 units to 50 units over the next 10, 15, 20 years, then this will also go like four, five X times. Okay. So, this is a very basic point. If the size of the investment community shrinks, then something like Noama wealth will suffer. Okay. So, this is the first underpinning that you need to understand about Noama wealth. Okay. Now, here, if the size of the industry, now this was this side explained earlier that there are three types of P's. One is called as industry P. One is called as PRPE. Okay. And one is called as absolute P. Okay. Now, Noama is or was a small cap company when I actually picked it. Now it has become a midi cap. Okay. So, you will see right here, there is no cost P history money because this is newly listed. Okay. So, it's not like, you know, you cannot do much. Right. But if you go and let's check, um, so, motto. Okay. So, let's say, so, motto. Right. So, so, motto, you will see 294 P. You'll go mad. Okay. So, this is like very happy. Right. Now, this is not here. The earnings are negative. So, again, this does not have a history. So, studying P.E. History of these type of companies does not lead to anything. Okay. Now, what do you think is going to happen in like, now, what is the underpinning for tomato? Like, what is, what does this P depends on? Okay. So, this P depends on earnings growth. If the company is able to grow its earning really fast and if the price grows by let's say 10 units, what the earnings grow by 100 units, the P will come down dramatically by a factor of 10. Everyone understands. Okay. That if the price of the stock is not growing, it's going sideways, but the earnings are expanding really fast for a high P company. Then the P will rationalize. Right. We are more worried about the future. Therefore, as a company, what is it that you need to check? You need to take a look at EPS growth. Okay. So, add one point in time in 2018. It's EPS or earning per share. Okay. Net profit will be the except for, but look at EPS. Okay. So, earning per share was minus 3000. Now, it has gone like this, this, this, this, this and 0.75. The moment this doubles to like 1.5, what will be the P assuming stock price is 202? The P will get cut in half. Why? Because P e may the price was same, 202. Okay. Ararning doubled, earning per share. So, this 294 becomes what? Right. Almost 150. Okay. Now, if it grows, EPS grows to 4 rupees. Okay. Then this keeps on going down. Okay. So, the hope with Zomato stock is this. So, if you are an investor in Zomato stock, what is it that you need to take a look? Now, P e lens, growth rate of the company, right? Or EPS growth rate. Now, if it suddenly becomes negative or if it has like two, three quarters of negative growth rate, uh, if it has two, three, uh, uh, two, three quarters of negative growth rate, then it's a slight problem. Okay. Everyone with me. Okay. Now, that's a very interesting question. Even I've been thinking that are people in India getting rich? The short answer is yes. Okay. Indians are getting rich. People in India might not be getting rich. Okay. That's a separate argument told together. Now, I'll say, how does that help me? It helps you a lot. Right. For example, I, up until now, I was giving like government, I don't know, five, six crore tax easily. You're, okay. Now, how much am I doing now? Answer is zero. Okay. Now, what am I doing with that money? I'll invest a large chunk of it back in India. Okay. So, and I'm in and I'm now almost 50, 60% of population in UA are Indians who make money in UAE, pay zero taxes anywhere. Half of that money, whatever they are saving in taxes, they bring it back to India. So there is a reason why remittance wise, India is number one nation in the world and it will continue to happen. Because you're just making rich people leave and saying boss see, we cannot provide you infrastructure. Like, understand the hidden message. Go abroad. Right. Make money. Okay. Save taxes. Just bring it back to India. Okay. So that's the point. Okay. So, and they're happy doing it. Okay. How do I know they're happy doing it? I was a customer of HDFC bank. HDFC bank used to pay me like seven percent on every days. Okay. Then government used to charge me like a third of taxes on that. So net, I used to make 4.9%. Now HDFC now I said that HDFC screw you right. I'm taking money to UAE, right. And they said that, okay, fine. Please give us like NRE deposit. So yes, NRE deposit means that you convert your when you become an LRI, you can convert you have to convert your account into NRO and NRE. And if you bring money back. So HDFC bank's offer. Okay. So we'll give you 5.5% not a NINR in USD. So it just for 4% fall. So that's 9.5%. Indian government comes and says that was cool. Don't pay any tax. Okay. Just bring money in USD terms back to India and take like 9.5% return on zero tax. So I'm not throwing you random numbers to facts. I call these things. Okay. So the point is that the moment I speak about this on public forums, I'll be screwed. Okay. So like so I'm telling you because you guys are my students, right. But I'm telling you, I mean, there is a hidden message. Okay. So any else that was an interesting conversation. And this is true. This is not if Indians abroad are getting rich, India will also get rich. Okay. So that's not a bad sign for India, right. It's it because there is something called as home biasness, right. So if we are investing because we are from India. So some part of our net worth will always remain in India. Right. I have to pay zero tax. No LTCG nothing on it right on on your US dollar based investing. Why? Because Gargimur Githalvarabha whatever you call it, right. Because I then have an option, right. For example, if I'm keeping let's say 100,000 US dollars in Dubai. Okay. Now I have an option to keep it in Dubai or I have an option to, you know, take it to Singapore, right. I have to pay zero tax there. So Indian government says that okay. And what for this way? So no one is going to bring that US dollar back to India in the remittance form. We desperately need US dollars. So NRA is a special scheme. Okay. So this is what what is the game. Okay. If you invest in equity market, that's a separate thing. Okay. So let's take like a quick break. So people are asking for a quick break. Let me just quickly complete this part and then I will do so. This is a P valoration something. Right. Here we are again not looking at R O C E much, right. Because this is an evolving business, right. One, here we are betting on growth rate. Okay. We are betting here. The bet is growth rate. This R O C E debate only comes in fairly mature businesses where you do not see vertical horizontal extensions. Okay. Are these tomato is becoming more efficient right. I don't keep profit. Tability has also not been sorted yet. Okay. So see they are getting net profitable. They are on a positive curve, right. And EPS is growing net profits are growing etc. Revenues have been doubling, right. For example, from 2021, how much have the revenues gone up by in three years, they have increased their revenue six times. So here we are betting on growth of the company or growth of the business. Number one, criticality is growth on this business. Nothing else matters. Okay. If you're holding some at all, you're holding it for growth, not for anything else. Everyone gets it. Okay. It will become consistent, become bound there at some stage. But right now, this is a pure growth play. Okay. Okay. So let's take like a five minute break and come back. Okay. So it's my time. It's 1118 a.m. So 1123. Okay. We'll come.